Survivor 15
Thoughts: 
PicturE
PicturE

There were a lot of characters in this season, but there were also a lot of people who as I go through my notes for the season as a whole I just straight up don’t remember. I believe this is far and away the most notes I have written for a season, showing how engaging it was. That being said, I find myself not having a lot to say about it. At the same time, I think that speaks to its credit. There isn’t a lot to critique; just good, noteworthy (literally) moments.

Before, I would complain about something like Exile Island. I think what they did this season with kidnapping tribe members was much more engaging. The person was removed from their camp (same effect as being sent to exile), but was still in the game and could even cause more trouble that way. They can be a spy, gain trust on the other side, and uncover hidden immunity clues if they stick with whoever they give the scroll to. You also don’t just remove that person (who as micronesia shows - could be a favorite) from the game. They can still be involved in a way that is interesting to watch and therefore makes the edit. 

So, for the players - Jean-Robert I felt definitely understood what was going on more than poker-player guy from the future. He went out there looking to win the game. On the other hand, he was kind of awful. He said his plan was to redeem himself and stop acting like such a jerk in the second half of the game, but eeeeeh. I’m not so sure. He just seemed like a creep. Also the shirts he wore on the jury felt very poker player in the mid 2000s, so good on him for playing into his role. Also he referred to himself as ‘Jean-Robert’ a lot and I would very much like to know why. 

James, oh James. James also had a creep moment when he and JR were in the water talking, but that was the only one I remembered. Having watched part of the first episode of Micronesia at the time of writing this, I find it hilarious what he said about Denise. Something along the lines of ‘she’s a hard worker. If I were 10 years older or she was 10 years younger, I’d be into her.” Then Parvati comes around and just hangs on him and doesn’t do the work and he’s like ‘well nevermind about hard work, she’s cute.’ James had some absolutely great lines and I’m glad he’s back again already. Also just a good player/camp member (aside from not playing his idols, lol).

Courtney just kind of slid by for a lot of the game. I am surprised she got more votes than Amanda at the end. She wasn’t a shot caller, meaning she didn’t do as much to make people mad at her. At the same time, her personality made plenty of people mad at her, lol. She had some great lines in this too though. I always appreciate it when someone backtalks Probst (like Penner does). Her dad was also great. He had no idea what was going on out there and was so posh. 

Todd and Amanda. I feel like they should be talked about together. They stuck together strong from nearly day one. I think that was a great move for Todd, less so for Amanda. She had plenty of times that she was considering voting off Todd and I think she absolutely should have. Todd was also playing people from day one. Everyone liked him and most people didn’t trust him. I feel like Amanda could have kept Todd’s strategy and just claimed most of his choices as her own and that could have gotten her more credit with the jury if she had voted him out. It seems like a lot of the women who make it to the finals in these earlier seasons were kind of in following roles (not the shot callers themselves). I’m not sure if that is because of the year of filming or what, but is unfortunate regardless. I feel like that game doesn’t get as much respect from the jury despite being a strategy to get to the finals. It doesn’t read as easily as ‘outwit’ despite being non-threatening enough not to have people gun for you. 

Finally, Denise. I remember writing in my notes how they stopped showing more of her about halfway through. Then she came back with a vengeance in the last few episodes and became a key figure. She really didn’t play a great jury game though. She didn’t win challenges, she didn’t make key plays. She stayed loyal for the most part, which is nice but isn’t really very ‘outwit’-y of her. She also didn’t make a great case for her tribemates keeping her on in the final 4. It’s a real shame that they wouldn’t give her her job back. It is super nice for her to get the 50k from the show creator though. Good for her. She seemed like an overall good person. AND HER KARATE! Heck yeah Denise. It was super cool that she was able to go to the temple. 

In conclusion:
“I bury people”


And I’m still waiting on these birds to get the recognition they deserve.
They fished real good. True Sole Survivor(s)
Ep. 1
Did Jeff just say ‘a gay mormon flight attendant’?

Chicken farmer is just going to go by “Chicken” then, huh? Okay

“This is not a worship ceremony”
Leaves because it felt like it was a worship ceremony

“Not a christian but I have a relationship with Jesus Christ”
Okay, you do you I suppose 

“I don’t have a bra”
“These boots weigh 20 pounds each”

How do you go into this not prepared to leave everything you brought with you at all times?

“It’s like rice patties and tropical rain forest” - Aaron 
Rice patties?

I can already start to see what you mean about Courtney, lol

Let’s see if this poker player (Jean-Robert) does better than what’s his face

Seeing them cut down the really tall bamboo hurts a bit

Uh oh. Wrestler going to vom? (Ashley)

“I am very very smart…” -Todd
Famous last words

Oh! Parkour! How very 2008(?) of him.

Carrying a Chinese dragon through a swamp. Delightful 

Dang, they really are even
Super close. One of the closest challenges I have seen, especially at the start
The swamp was definitely the game changer

Welp. There goes Chicken. 
Oooh, they got flint this time. They didn’t leave them with nothing like they did last season.

Ep. 2
Leadership always seems like a trap

Jean-Robert not looking like he’ll get much further than other poker guy 

“Let me finish - let me finish.” 
Always love when people say this. Great way to make people like you

They already seem exhausted in this pushing the ball challenge. They are just falling down

This is just becoming a pile of naked people 
Lol, she didn’t even know her top came off. Too much into the game

Jean and James working it. Big guys not able to be stopped

Oooh. A kidnap already?
Seems early for that 

That hidden immunity idol is really hidden in plain sight. It feels a lot more hidden than the one that was hidden on the rice container though

Everyone buddy buddy with Todd. Jean doesn’t trust him, but still is in good with him. Todd in a good way

Ah, It’s the battering ram puzzle log challenge. 

They ran forward so fast that James almost got nailed in the head by the gong they had to ring with the battering ram.

There’s that blue shirt with the rings again. Classic 

Figured it would be Ashley out this time. It was either her or Dave and I feel like Dave gave a good enough spiel that he gave people an idea that he can be reasoned with. 

Ep. 3
Hmmm. Jean-Robert being weird in the sleep area
 
“Four hours at Barnes and Noble and I feel like Crocodile Dundie” - James
Lol

Dave has gone off the deep end. Just full on naked
Oof. Right into Dave’s naked crotch. Time to go. You’ve already lost 

They are making liberal use of the blur tool this season. I guess that tracks for the kinds of clothes they were made to come to the game with

Nothing can stop James

Hrmm. Very Christianity heavy talk

Oooooh no. Jean and James. Ooooh no. (talking about the girls)

I feel like Leslie is going to get played hard

Courtney trying her hardest to get through those ropes on this challenge. Just not strong enough to get through the wood with the machete 

They are going to finish this challenge and Courtney will still be working on the first one
Oh my god. She has no strength. She got through it though. Good for her

It only took to episode 3 for the other tribe to win immunity. Good for them.

Yeesh. Courtney’s hand

Yes vote Jean out. He does not deserve the million

“Sister Christian. That’s Leslie”
“Mom. That’s Leslie”

I guess it makes sense to get rid of her. Enough at least. That is some big confidence that they think they won’t lose and get another chance to vote her off before the merge which is what they were worried about. 

Nearly unanimous vote

Ep. 4
PicturE
Leader guy (Dave) being blown up on just for asking for shells. He wasn’t listening when she (Sharea?) was talking to him, but his initial request was not unreasonable or unreasonably worded. 

Both to tribal, huh?
Interesting. 

So this kidnapping is just the new Exile Island, huh?

Giant chopsticks in China, huh? Okay

No one likes Dave, lol
Everyone continues to like Todd

These idol clues seem really unhelpful. Or at least very vague. I could see them not being found. 

Those birds own that boat. They didn’t even move when they completely moved the boat


Jean speaking to the locals in Mandarin. Good on him

They do own the boat! It is they! Those are good good birds. 

Wow that’s a lot of food. 

It really seems like they’re playing into stereotypes more this season. I guess the American viewing audience knows a lot more about Chinese stereotypes than Fijian stereotypes 
(chopsticks, samurai style armor)

This armor/bolo throwing challenge seems hard. Dang, just as I was typing that they finally got the first point. 

Nice work out there James. Good blocks, good throws

Nice work Jamie! Two hits in one

Whew, Courtney’s hands still wrapped up from what I assume was the machete chopping challenge. 

Dave, huh? I guess. Certainly no one liked him. 

Ep. 5
Erik and Jamie trying to follow in Casandra’s footsteps
Erik just spouting out he’s a virgin.

Ooh. A tribe swap?

The other tribe doesn’t realize they’re trading. Ooh boy

Another video glitch. Huh. 

How were the master copies stored that it’s this bad? There are a bunch of glitches here

Sharea is crying, but she just asked for them to spice things up. (I guess that could be clever editing)

Jean-Robert has referred to himself in the 3rd person one too many times for me

Sharea. Don’t complain about Jean asking you to cook. You literally volunteered for that job yesterday

Yellow team just doing nothing in this challenge. 
“Big lead from Aaron and James and then you completely blew it” - Jeff 
James blowing up after the challenge. He’s not wrong though

Erik feeling left out for not being in on the throw

James rightfully mad at them during council, lol

Daaaang Aaron. Tough stuff voting for James. I guess with only 5, he knows what’s up
Oh. Someone voted Aaron? They voted out Aaron? They said they weren’t going to do that I thought. Okay

Ep. 6
Wait. They’re going to try and throw again?

It feels like at this point in the game it would be better to just get used to the stink rather than reset with a shower. 

This searching houses for planks challenge seems odd. Reminds me of the abandoned military housing you’d find in the US.

“The Charmin Teahouse”
Sounds appetizing. Toilet paper tea 

Yes Courtney. Jean-Robert is gross

That’s their fault for trying to get that idol during the day time

I guess they don’t know it also exists on the other tribe? James gets the idol and goes back to his tribe, gets the other idol

Todd why are you telling everyone about the idol!?

Hrmmm. A food eating competition 

Ah, another “traditional” food eating competition 

I guess that Courtney will not do well. 

Okay, chicken hearts actually seems okay. Small enough to not be awful. 
That is so much eel. So close on the eels!
Aww, baby turtles. The shells too, huh? Oh wow those were smaller than I thought 
If they were choosing who to send up, they should have sent James up against Courtney
Jesus Denise. Yelling at the food. Oh my god. She can’t do it.

Wow. They couldn’t pull it out and now James can’t send someone home. 

Sharea goes home I guess?
Jean-Robert isn’t a bad choice. If the merge is coming, smart to get rid of the strong player. 

Drag Jean, Courtney. Drag him

I am surprised by the lack of talk back when Jeff says ‘your tribe has spoken.’ Some people quip, but most people just keep on walking. I guess they know the game and they know what’s expected, but I’d still expect some quips  

Ep. 7
James being super suspicious 
He got two!

Todd losing some sway.

Can people steal idols? Like actually physically take the hidden immunity idol if they find it from someone? I would imagine no based on what I’ve seen.

Are they going to find both idols!?
They are really digging in there
They found ‘em!

Man, it’s really obvious that the idol is not on the gate. Big empty spot

James cackling over the idea of the others thinking they have an idol

Welp. Merge time. Now James just has two idols and is good at challenges. Ooh boy

Jeff putting a damper on the merge feast, lol

Courtney’s voice getting so high only dogs can hear when talking about the alcohol, lol

I thought ‘the game never ends’ was referring to how you should keep strategizing, but it’d be neat if the activities were precursors for the upcoming challenges

Jeff’s at camp. Why is Jeff at camp?

Individual immunity!? Yeeee - Was I right about the activities? Yes….
I’m impressed anyone has any answers right on this 
Frosti doing well for saying he was out right at the beginning
He got it!

They have to subtitle everything James says because it’s so Louisiana, lol

Jean-Robert coming at Todd with that jury hate

James getting fed up with Jean blowing their alliance up, lol

“I know you’re not giving it up” -Jeff talking about the immunity necklace
Maybe a shift toward not asking every time?

So many votes to be cast. Even that part must take a while with this many people

Jamie playing the ‘immunity idol’
James got his wish about them playing a fake idol

Into the fire!
Jean could still very well go home today though
Alright! They stuck together enough at least
Jamie’s gone
Wow, Courtney stuck with voting for Jamie! I did not see that coming.

Ep. 8
PicturE

Jean-Robert referring to Jean-Robert as Jean-Robert again

They have started showing less of the lunch lady (Denise?) and that is a shame

Bummer for Denise. Doesn’t even get a chance for the challenge. 
Courtney was not a good choice for having to bale water into the boat. Buckets too heavy

Jean-Robert the only smart one looking for the idol while everyone else is asleep. Too bad it’s already gone

Interesting challenge (balancing on barrels that are slowly draining)
No one off immediately after they pulled the release lever. Good on them
Jean-Robert taunting everyone, lol
How much water is in there? Surely at this point it is just balance, no changing from water 
All the tiny people just sort of chilling, lol
Courtney is in this challenge to win it
Frosti’s song, lol
Good on Courtney!
That necklace is huge on her


I have a feeling Todd’s plan is going to blow up on him.

Jean bluffing about the idol. Immediately caught in a lie
Oops James. 

Now two groups thinking about pulling one over on James

Good on James for keeping his calm with Jean.
Bad on Jean for making James feel threatened 

Why would you not take an idol with you James? Why not just take one?

Ope, there’s Jeff’s hoop shirt 

It feels like you should always bring your things. You never know what’s going to happen. Very confident to not bring anything with you to tribal

Will James go home with two immunity idols tonight? Oh my god
Oooo it’s a close one
Oooooh. JR is gone! 

Todd! You got rid of Jean-Robert! You better hope he doesn’t know it was you. He told you what was coming if you were the one to off him.

Ep. 9
James singing to everyone to wake them up, lol

Courtney and Frosti getting close. Makes me wonder about the episode’s title of “Just Don’t Eat the Apple” given that they have talked about how this place was like the garden of eden. 

Man, every single shot of Amanda from the back has to be blurred

Back to the start! The ball drum challenge
This one is brutal
Yellow is rocking this challenge 
Red finally got to the first mat meanwhile yellow is already near scoring twice 
What an absolute travesty 

“... and make you look quite silly.” -James

“Be nekked, be happy” - James

How old is Courtney? She said Frosi was ‘only 20’, so I would assume she is like 25? I have no idea by looking at her

Will Courtney be able to stab through the tiles?
Woof. That is a lot of food.

Lots of people going to eat. Gives the other tribe a good chance to win

Giving a limit on the time you can eat really seems dangerous. 
Denise feeling right at home with the mass-produced burgers and fries from a lunch room 

PG might finally win something. Frosti pulled it out! More time for the others to eat
PG finally got it! She wanted it bad

Todd. You’re falling apart a bit, bud.

What do they do with the campsites after filming? How do they choose them to begin with?
James ate 7 burgers!? 

No Jeff, two votes “Frosti :( “ not two votes “Frosti”

Aaay, Frosti did a final quip as Jeff snuffed his torch. 

Test that right now?
What?
Cliffhanger? Cliffhanger 

Ep. 10
Clip show? I didn’t clock this the first time; but, reading through my notes, it is especially cruel to leave a cliffhanger and then have a week where it is a ‘best of’ the season clip show.

Ep. 11
Are they going to do the ‘’write people’s names down” thing?

Gotta love how excited James gets for the history stuff. Old buildings, excited about the Xiao Linn temple reward

Questions about culture, huh?

“Still think you’re right Denise?”
“No”
“We’ll you’re right about that”
Brutal, Jeff

Denise was the correct 2nd choice to come with

So much Eden talk

Amanda about to start some waves? She needs to if she wants any chance at winning. From the jury’s point of view, she hasn’t done anything 

I feel like Denise’s loyalty is going to bite her

Denise does karate? Lol. Good for her

:O that guy just broke a metal bar on his head and started bleeding. 

Yeah Denise! Show off your moves!
I would have loved to have seen Chicken at this reward, lol

“Cave is my happy place” - Courntey 
She is going full Shane

They recognize that it is top three now. The other seasons have clearly aired now. 

Oo. Throwing star challenge 

Straight into the ground for the first toss
At least the second one hit the board

If anyone scores any points that’d be impressive. Who has experience with throwing stars?

Did he call him South Paw? Is that a left handed thing?

Nice Courtney! Much better than anticipated!
Three tied for 6 so far!
James got the three-point-guy right in the crotch
Four tied for first!

Last chance, James. Gotta hit 3+ points

Good on Erik. Might have been gone otherwise 

Now is literally the only time to get James out, fellas. He can play both idols in the next two. No reason not to use them then. 

Todd at least knows this plan potentially puts his head on the chopping block

James didn’t play it ! Are they sticking with the plan or not?
Is he going to go home with TWO IDOLS!?
They done did it!!!

The jury cracking up.

Good on James for respecting the game in the exit blip 
Ep. 12
PicturE

PG hanging on for dear life.

“Alright Erik! You’re going to be paired up with your mom” - wait what?

Amanda breaking down just watching other people’s families come through

Todd. You better not be playing a Jonny Fairplay right now

Wow Courtney is skinny. Like dangerously 

Wow this maze seems very hard. No caller to guide, everyone just blind

Courtney’s dad being so english and posh
Courtney calling out Probst, lol

Go Denise! She gets to steal her husbands socks after all 

Amanda seeing the cake! Lol

Woof the phone call is rough. Very emotional 

They’re calling out Todd’s story!
“Convenient miscarriage” - Courtney

Really real, huh? Wow

I don’t know how often I cut my nails; but if I forgot to right before I came to the island, I imagine that would be a problem a month in. (They were cleaning their nails. This wasn’t just a completely random thought)

Ah, a tied-to-a-rope challenge. They were lacking on those this season.

I’m not really sure who deserves to win this season. I feel like Todd has played hard, but even that is like, eh.

Some of these questions are like “Who knows”
Then there is like “Was the fortune cookie invented in China”. That one I feel is much more common knowledge than “did the chinese invented the crossbow or barbed wire”

Good on Amanda and Todd for being neck and neck

Well Todd, are you going to win immunity and change my mind about you not being deserving? 

My boy did you not choose gunpowder? Did you just lose this challenge?
Welp Todd. Not today

PG working hard to stay in it
They’ve got to take out Erik now, right?
Erik or Todd 

Does third get more money than just participating? I looked it up before, but I couldn’t find a good answer. 

Denise doesn’t really have a good chance either way. If she goes up against Todd I don’t think she has jury votes. Unless JR really did campaign against Todd like he said he would. 
If she goes up against PG or Erik then she doesn’t win against the underdog. 

James death glare from the jury, lol

Wait. Does that shirt have sleeve loops too? 
What is this Jeff?

Why this shirt for so many years now?

Is the only time you’d give up immunity if you were either holding or faking a hidden idol? Or I guess if you won but you were just absolutely done for whatever reason

If Denise said what she just said about making a mistake and didn’t vote for Todd, idk what she’s thinking

One vote left! Denise, what did you do?
Alright. Stuck strong with the alliance. Good on you Denise. Not sure what your best move was there.

Ep. 13
So many private jets this season.

Great Wall of China. They had to 

One arrow for PG. Woof

Oh my god Courtney. So many arrows

This challenge is very difficult for having so few arrows. Not many chances to test it out

Nice job Todd! Wow. 3 for 3. 4 for 4! 5! Almost all 6. Very good Todd

Alright 12-arrow-Courtney. Plenty to test it out
Denise! Todd! Courtney swinging this game hard! Back to tie! Denise! 
Rough choice there Denise. Smart for having her not get energy for immunity. Maybe not smart for if she does end up in the end and PG is on the jury. 

Denise’s choice for who to take on the reward made sense to me. Courtney won the game for her and Todd actually did the best on the challenge. Still makes sense that Amanda is upset about it. Rough being out there so long for anyone.

Wow! That really is a lot of fish. They are eating almost as well as those people who went to the reward.

Denise playing more of the game in these last few episodes. If she does make it I’m worried the jury won’t be able to see that.

Oh no! The chicken fetus! Denise is done. 

This really is a big combo of things.

Close one Amanda. Almost didn’t get that 3 on the last throw

Oh dang. It doesn’t count if it doesn’t stick. 
Too bad Todd. 

Denise already looks like she is going to throw up already, just from uncovering it. Yeesh. I don’t blame her though. Awful

Come on Amanda! You got this! Ye! Other one has got to be Pg. Yup. She is earning her spot

Courtney couldn’t do the disks anyway

They are neck and neck in this last part
I do not understand the disk puzzle part. They seem to though. Good on them. 
Come on Amanda! It gets easier as you eliminate options!
Yeee Amanda! 

Now you have a tough choice to make though. If PG had won, it would have been easy for her. 

Outwit is literally on the Survivor logo. Cheating and deceiving feels like it’s part of the game. I don’t feel like an honorable game really comes into it, PG.

Have they ever had a vote so illegible Jeff couldn’t read it?

Whew. I really wasn’t sure if Todd or PG was going. I thought he would get more votes. We’ll see if Amanda flipped or not in the credits
Nope, all PG.

Ep. 14
Are all seasons 14 episodes?

Great wall challenge
Literally the food Courtney was asking for, lol. 

That bridge really looks like it could go together more than one way.

It really feels like Todd needs this reward the least and he is doing the best so far. 
Still anyone’s game. Puzzle taking a good while 
Amanda have it? Whew! Good on her
I feel like you’d just throw up after having nothing for so long and then eating an entire pizza, soda, and beer

Amanda sticking with Todd, huh? Wow. Not what I expected

Wait, Todd just said final two. Do they know it’s 3? Or is he just so hungry that he misspoke?

Courtney death glare at Todd interrupting her and Amanda’s conversation, lol

A slightly different take on the remembrance, huh?

They’ve got a lot more to say about the people this season, lol.
Dragging Jean-Robert in the remembrance

Oh hey! I think I know this challenge! That or they do it again/before. Someone stacks the bowl upside down I think. 

It feels like they’d be at a chance for skin cancer out here with all the non-sun-screen protected outside time and their white, white skin
Oo Todd. That tower is a-leanin’.
Todds tower is gone and so is he probably 
 
It was Amanda! She did the upside down bowl!

I feel like Amanda needs this the least of them all. Todd was kind of gunning for her, but not really. 
Amanda playing hardball, lol. She knows her tech has this in the bag

Todd seems like a good choice to vote out, but idk. He’s made some people (JR) mad at him, but at the same time he has played a very strategic game. 

Denise playing hardball right back after the challenge!

Dang Courtney! “She doesn’t deserve it because she sucks at life” talking about Denise. Rough

James doing a happy dance on the jury throughout this final tribal council, lol
Two Denise, one Todd
Where will it end?
Denise is gone. She did not fight well for herself at the end there “no reason to bring me along”

I think you did tell her you had her back that day, Amanda? 

How long does the film crew just sit there watching them sleep?

The burning of everyone’s leftover personal belongings has become the new remembrance ceremony, lol

Denise’s haircut is the only one that looks worse after not being out in the wilds

James’ question, lol

James’ commentary from the jury. Amazing 

Jamie going strong with her question!

Denise not even with a question. Just a final statement 

I don’t think this is going to be another sweep, but I don’t think Courtney will get votes

James should give his vote to Todd just for shutting up JR

Courtney got Denise’s vote! At least one for Courtney!

JR is so salty, lol
What a switcheroo Jeff. You pulled one over on my Probst. A slippery little sucker, just like the episode title said

Todd, why did you steal Denise’s haircut?
Two votes for Courtney!? Good for her
The absolute shrieking from Todd’s family, lol

Reunion:
Good on JR for respecting the game

“It’s a compliment if it's true”  Jeff talking to JR

James getting all the grief for the idols, lol

How many camera men are at a tribe at a time?

“You’ve got fans even despite making the biggest blunder in the history of this game” 
Jeff not holding back, lol

They skip giving out the extra 100k by vote just for the season with my man Yau-Man. Rough

“No I actually hate kids” Get ‘em Courtney! Lol

“Anorexic, eating disorder, what’s the deal? Answer the question.” Wow Jeff. I sure hope you talked to her about asking this question beforehand and this was just to clear things up

They didn’t give Denise her job back!? Rude 

Wow. An actual couple dating after the show. Erik and Jamie

WOW Jeff! “Are you still a virgin?”
Some really probing (probsting?) questions this reunion

‘Hey Erik, you and Jamie get it on yet? Tell America, yes now please thank you’

Good for James for winning the extra $. Too bad for Denise because it feels like she could use it, but good for James

Aaaaay Denise! She got the extra money anyway!

Is it Fans vs Favorites? It looks like it 

Micronesia. I’ve heard about this one before. 


