Survivor 13
Thoughts:
PicturE

This one was a doozy. So many things happened I feel like. I think this is the season I have written the most down on. That is due to a combination of a lot of notable things happening, making it more engaging, making me pay more attention and write more things down. 

There were a lot of interesting challenges. I think a few challenges of this season we watched in our three hour survivor-binge talk. I definitely remember Yul and your comment of ‘he is nice to look at’, lol. Something I have noticed from watching Survivor is like “huh, I know I’m thin; but looking at the people out there, I think I might actually be fit - like proper muscle.” Then this guy comes along and it’s like “well calm down there, Yul.”

Penner continues (for the first time) to give Jeff lip and commentary and that’s great. It is interesting to see how people treat the game. Some people are out there not knowing what’s going on (Flicka) and some people are there to win (Penner, Yul). I can retroactively see how Tony’s game was so strange now. Penner out here causing trouble, but everyone was on to him for it and actually got him out. Tony was following a similar path, but no one stopped him. I think I mentioned something similar when I talked about Penner last time. 

Yul is great. He never lost his head like (thinks about all the seasons I’ve watched) almost every other player. He seemed very humble, even after the votes were cast and it didn’t matter anymore. 

Ozzy was also great. I think someone said supernatural and superhuman. He was a beast in the challenges and with anything to do with swimming. I think I wrote about that several times in my notes. 

Something else I wrote about in my notes several times was Parvati (a name I don’t think I have ever heard before) and her constant flirtations. I think a few people have said they are going to come on the show and use their wiles to run the show, but she seems to be the only one to have actually done that (that the camera has shown). She clung on for a good long while.

That being said, Candice and Adam actually making out for a prolonged period of time on camera was strange. It felt a lot more reality television at that point rather than game. They were answering a question and then just started full on making out. Was there a camera man there? Did they tell them to do that? Did they tell them not to? Very strange. 

The actual split by race thing was super strange. Whose idea was that and whose idea was it for Jeff to keep bringing it up? What were you going for there producers? “Do you think that your initial ethnic group tribes changed anything?” I guess he’s queueing them up to say something like ‘No. It had no effect. We’re all just people’, but who would actually say anything else? I guess if they did say something else that would also be a wild thing to have happen and therefore be good TV. From what you told me, it sounds like it drove some real nuts out of the woodworks as far as the fan community goes. I am glad that there was at least one representative of each group present until nearly the end. From what I remember us talking about, I was fearing that all the white people were just going to stick together and wipe out the competition (Penner and Candice tried with swapping over, but nope). Also, I like how the people who used deceit and fast talking as their main strategy (Penner and Parvati) were white, lol. Yul and Ozzy out here explicitly trying to work against stereotypes while the white people out there trying to solidify them. (although at least to Penner’s credit he worked hard getting fish and working around camp).

Exile Island continued to not be much of a factor as far as interesting things to actually show. I guess I’d rather have the desired effect on the game than it be a more entertaining thing to watch. Making the game more interesting will be better in the long run, but it still feels like a mostly wasted opportunity for something. 

In conclusion:

Yeesh, there was a lot to talk about this season.

Also

This man has far too many muscles (and from looking up his name to get this picture has aged far too well).












Ep. 1
Normal length episode 1?

Now that's a ship!

Cook Islands. I've heard this

Penner!

Oh. Oh no.
I know why I know that name now. 

It's race war time…

They are so far away from that island! Jesus

More minorities, yes. A great way to include more minorities, probably not 

Normally I'd do a guess about who will win
Something tells me Penner will not be the winner…

Wow Flicka. Already lost the chickens 

A boat that's a puzzle!? I love it 

Holding the boat together with their legs as it falls apart. Amazing 

Challenge and reward together, interesting 

Ooo exile island is still in. That's right!
Idol up through final four still

Jonathan paying the penance for the chicken he stole and doesn't even have anymore. Those chickens are a real pain for him, lol

Ep. 2
Huh. Didn't consider that it was 20 people this time. Is that unusual? I haven't actually paid attention to the starting number except for the new season; but that one is shorter

Good on what's his face for recognizing that getting orders from someone ten years younger could be annoying. (Ozzy)

Is reward and immunity because 4 tribes? Or have I just not noticed that's how it is early in the game? 

"I'm trying to conserve my energy because I don't have much energy to start with"
Maybe this wasn't the best game for you, sir

Very broad final guess: one of the two younger Asian guys will be in the finals

Memorizing and going through the maze? No way 

Yeah Yul! Giving a bit more credibility to my guess with that idol

Good on Billy for at least trying to stir something up

Ooo! Things getting heated at tribal!

Love at first sight! Oh my god! Jeff's face!
This season is getting off to a running start

Ep. 3
Swift merge. I remember you saying they gave up on the idea pretty fast

Cao Boi. What a name. Every time I hear it 

Squishing an egg for tribes. Interesting

"I'm just here to make friends" -Flicka
What are you doing in this game? What did you think this was going to be?

They're all about clipping people together with ropes recently 

Did we watch this challenge? (Running around in water with sand bags)
It seems very familiar 

Yeeeah Becky! Close one. I was rooting for her to stay

Ep. 4
How do they choose the order in which people show up in the opening?

Man, they didn't even show any time of Candice on the island. Did they? Just seems like a missed opportunity. Just a punishment still, not interesting for the viewer. I guess it does allow the other tribe to affect tribal council and removes the person from the social aspect of being at camp and that can make things more interesting 

Still more rope challenges! 

Okay. This challenge is just reward 

Parvati is devious 

Wow Ozzy. Those big steps closing the distance 

Poor girl cut herself with the axe making fire for nothing

JP taking the vote out with grace

Ep. 5
Wow they rowed to the other tribe, lol

Oh hey. I think I know this challenge. Do they just carry the pole over? Let's see
Maybe a different time 
Very snug up there 
Oh no! They all fell!

What a difficult challenge at the end 

Ep. 6
Both to council!?
Oh. Food and a show. Rough

The wrestling pole challenge is so rough 

So many octopi near that beach

Poor Cao Boi didn't see it coming 

Absolutely brutal having to eat that food in front of the other tribe 

Kidnap a member! Ooo
Nate? Really? Not Christina to make them vote someone else off? Huh. They seemed pretty vocal at council about her not getting along I thought. Maybe they want in good with Nate for the merge or something 

Ep. 7
Special episode? Ah, clip show

Next

Ep. 8
“Pull your top down baby” - just so tired she does not care
Man, all their clothes are falling off

Go Candice! Redeem yourself from the last key

Man, Raru is at a real disadvantage with only two swimmers now

Always rooting for Yul and Penner’s team

Does Jeff know who has the hidden idol if it hasn’t been shown in tribal? I would imagine it’d be useful for him not to know so he didn’t accidentally give something away

Woo! Penner’s still in this!

Ep. 9
“The four caucasians together in the merge”
From what I remember we talked about, that may just happen

MUTINY!? … no one?
Penner and Candice!
Are they going to immediately merge now? I really hope they merge right now - dang

Are they about to roll those people in the barrels? Oh my god
Immediate and absolute barf and bruising 

The people in the barrels look miserable 

“Aitu with a big lead!” Yeah, they have aqua man Ozzy

Wow Raru is way off course 

Hey! They’re actually showing Candice on Exile Island

Penner is not in a good way. He’s got a lot of proving himself to do

Oh hey it’s this challenge! (glass bottom boats)
I’m pretty sure we watched this one. I feel like Yul does well in this if I remember correctly
Yul might have just figured out the hack. There it is!

“Jonathan getting frustrated by me” -Jeff
Fantastic commentary

Dang Aitu. Fast!

Oh dang. First jury member. I think that’s the first time we’ve gotten a jury member before a merge happens?
From what Jeff just said about them being surprised the jury started then, I’m going to assume that’s true

Ep. 10
PicturE
PicturE

Oh dang Candice and other-white-guy who isn’t Penner! First kiss I think I’ve seen between contestants 

Man Raru has become a disaster tribe

Lol, Yul in a person sandwich!

What is this little note? 

My god Ozzy can swim

Strong feeling Rebecca is going home today (prediction made before challenge is over)

Oh dang! Jury actually present before the merge. Didn’t even think about them showing up for tribals yet.

Jeff, what is this shirt? Why are all your shirts like this?

What are these, Jeff? Explain yourself.


Intuition about Rebecca confirmed! Penner staying strong

ANOTHER VOTE!?
I did clock that they would have to do a couple double votes to make the initial 20 match up with the normal (16?) lower initial number

Oooooo - who’s it going to be? Jenny!? Oh my god! 

I guess you told me this was coming with the white people sticking together. I was fully expecting to see Penner go, though    

Does Rebecca not get an outro? Just Jenny? 

Ep. 11
Penner being grumpy dad guy
“All they wanted to do is get faded, which is not what we used to call it” - Penner
Old man today for sure

Man, Penner has some serious ear hair that I just noticed.

Yeesh. This challenge. Just hanging onto a pole. I would last less than a minute in this challenge 
Wow Adam. Barfed up all his energy from the feast and spent the rest trying to seduce the other two members of his original tribe

Yul with that elephant knowledge 

Candace as cool as a cucumber on top of the pole. Showing off 

Oh dang, rain! Candace still does not care at all

Jeff taunting them with the necklace, lol

Seems sketchy being up there with the lightning

Jesus, Ozzy. Stood up on the top the whole time

Good on Penner for not just outing Yul as having the idol

My god, the extended kissing scene 

“I will never have an experience like this again” -Penner
Well…

What you gonna do, Penner? Who you voting for?

Down to the last vote!
Let’s go Penner!!!! Flip Flip Flip

Ep. 12
And now Penner deals with his consequences. 

Wait, Parvati is a boxer?

Auction? Auction!

Yul and Becky sticking together. Oh my god! Cash steal!

Why is Yul confirming he has the idol?

420 for Oz

Poor Candice has been on exile island for so many days

This challenge, are you kidding me? Remembering all these random things about challenges when you are so hungry
Oh my god the second part of this challenge is even more brutal

Penner sticking in this game by the skin of his teeth!
Splitting up the power couple too!
Ep. 13
Hmmmm. I knew it was only a matter of time before Parvati cut herself the way they held on her chopping the coconut so long

Loved ones
Parvati “Hi dad I cut off my finger”

The transferring water from bucket to bucket always seems so difficult 
I was hoping Sundra would get to be with her mom

It's smart for the loved on to choose who they get to come with them. That way it's not on the survivor and it is harder to hold it against them

Brutal Ozzy. Starve the competition. Smart, but brutal

Jesus Ozzy, just any physical competition 
Sundra took a real bad fall on the barrels!
Dang Ozzy! First competent person I have seen to actually build one of the stick-tied-together poles

Woof. Penner’s finally out. Feels like the other two would have been better choices. But I guess as long as Ozzy keeps winning challenges it doesn’t really matter

Ep. 14
I do not like the mud challenge 

Parvati playing every card she has to stay in this game

Lol, close up on the hat

“Do you think Jeff will get mad at me” -Yul talking about giving Penner his hat back, lol

There are so many people left with only 3 more days left

Ep. 15
This Tribe will Self-Destruct in 5, 4, 3…
Good episode title. Off to a good start on the finale episode 

Man, I have already forgotten some of these people who were here at the start

Good on Aitu for sticking together all this way

“The most difficult puzzle we’ve had” You have my interest, Mr. Probst

Did we watch this one? I feel like we may have watched this one

Oo, the rope bridge is familiar 

They said it right with ‘this is like a huge jungle gym’

Jesus Yul. Mouth strength with that plank

Surprisingly close on this challenge. I think Penner would not have done great in this one

Ozzy wow. That little extra time at the start of the puzzle got it for him

Uuhh, Nate? What’s with the foot there, buddy?

Adam’s being rude to the girls, but at least he is being polite enough to raise his hand rather than interrupting them.

Ousted all the white people! Good on Aitu!

Is this going to be the first final three rather than two?

Walk with the torches still has a strange feel
It is nice that it gets to be the Auti 4 to do it together though

This torch burning is much more subdued than it has been in the past. Much less giant fire

Okay, this challenge seems a bit more fair. They took Yul’s surface area comment to heart with the rope-pole challenge

Wait- so that means Yul is just safe. He’s got the hidden idol and it can be used through final 4 and it can be used after votes. Jesus that is too strong

Oh Ozzy! Very sketch there for a sec, bud. Oh my god, twice!
Sundra and Ozzy left. Come on Sundra! Win a single challenge!

2 hours!? What an awful time
Good job, Ozzy. Well earned

Yul. Do not give Becky the idol. Do not do it. My boy.

Tie breaker? Tie breaker! Good on you Yul.

Uhg, trying to light the spark with the flint always spooks me out. Too much knife near hand

Jeff looking quite bored. One hour!?

LOL everyone is so done. Oh my god! Going to matches

Becky just cannot make fire even with a match

Ozzy and Yul regretting making this a tie

Jeff is so done

She ran out of matches!

Wow. That was an impressive fire making competition. That was something

My god, Adam. What a piece of work. 

They saving Penner for last?

Poor Becky not getting many questions. 
Poor Becky not getting any votes

Good on you, Yul!

Reunion:
Yul, amazing response to not wanting to leave Ozzy and Parvati alone together

Penner’s kid waving at the camera and trying to get the other kid’s attention 

Cao Boi trying to get Jeff’s attention and Jeff just shaking his head ‘no’, lol

I’m sorry. Model boxing?

Okay. Two hidden idols on Exile Island and “a twist”. Maybe it will continue to be more of a thing. I didn’t really feel like there was a lot of change this season like they said there would be. 

