Survivor 14
Thoughts:
PicturE
PicturE

You said this one was a bit of a slog, but I think there were some really interesting people in this one. They introduced the new (current?) idol rules, which is a big step. I would have to imagine that was in response to what happened with Yul or that they just were always planning on switching but didn’t want to reveal that it was a final 3 now (although they also did final 3 here and revealed earlier that the idol could only be used until the final 5, so who knows). 

What were they thinking with giving the tribe with no supplies continuous disadvantages? It’s like kicking them when they’re down. If they can’t get fire, they can’t get water, they can’t win challenges, they keep getting nothing. In the Pokemon card game, whenever you knock out one of your opponents you get an extra card. You doing well makes you do better. I don’t get that design philosophy, but if it has lasted for so long, it must make sense. You would think that you would want to give the other player the card to try and even the playing field, but nope. Feels like the same thing going on here. Rich get richer sort of deal.

I liked Exile Island more this season. I feel like having more than one idol and having the chance for the idol to be re-hidden gave it more purpose. There was a bit more camera time there, so it didn’t feel as much like someone was just being taken out of the TV-narrative as much. From what I saw of next season at the end of the reunion episode, I would imagine it won’t be there; but we’ll see.  

All the team swapping was interesting, unique. It definitely threw some wrenches in people’s plans, which makes for a more interesting game. Makes you keep on your feet more. Unless you are Earl and Yau-Man and you get to stick together. 

As for the people. There were a lot of good players this time. That being said, there were a lot of … not good players. Lisi didn’t seem to understand what was going on half the time. “I don’t take challenges seriously.” Then why are you here? “Were you greedy?” when trying to drag Cassandra? Lisi, this game is about winning one million dollars? What do you think she was here for? 

Rocky sucked. In many ways. Not good. Alex also kind of sucked, especially towards the end and at the jury. He was mad at Dreamz, but at that point you’ve been able to clean up and eat food. No reason to blow up that much at people once you’ve had a minute to rest. 

Anthony was a sweet summer child. He did not deserve to be stuck with what became the all men tribe. 

Dreamz was an odd one. I appreciated his and Jeff’s relationship, lol. Especially at the reunion when Jeff was trying to get a straight answer out of Dreamz and he was just spouting nonsense. He played well for the most part, but not giving Yau-Man the necklace screwed him over both ways. He lost whatever remaining respect he had with his boys, the rest of the jury, and the audience. Not a fan of Dreamz for playing my boy Yau-Man dirty. 

Michelle I liked. I believe it was her who started the fire with her glasses, which was absolutely wild. She was also loyal to her group of people (if I remember correctly). I was sad to see her  go. There were a lot of people who I assumed would go a lot sooner than they did too. I thought Boo would be out quickly after he axed himself in the leg and hand (simultaneously); but he worked hard to stay in it. 

Finally, though, we gotta talk about my guys Earl and Yau-Man. Speaking of people who I thought would go early. My man, Yau-Man, I had out within the first 5 at most. Little old asian man, no way he makes it far. But he and Earl formed that alliance and stuck with it. Yau-Man was also out there actually winning challenges. The time with the targets where he got every single point - my dude. 

Also, Earl hadn’t seen the show? He was on a plane only 2 days after he found out he was on? Was he an alternate? What’s up there? He played hard, but not as hard as Yau-Man. They were a great team, made the whole season. It was a shame that Earl had to turn on Yau, but it was absolutely the right move on his part.  

In conclusion:

This is the best person yet to play Survivor.
Move over Yul.
This is a Yau-Man appreciation space.


Also:



Yau and Earl OTP


Ep. 1
We Fiji now
“A place once known for its cannibalism” I’m sure they appreciate that, Jeff.

No direction? Just hanging out

Sure hope nothing fragile is in that box

One tribe of 19?

That’s a lot of supplies

‘Askew’ is a big word, huh Rocky? Oh boy

Dreamz making enemies already

One person in charge of splitting the teams!?
And the leader?

Sylvia to exile island already? That’s too many snakes

This first challenge has so many steps

Man, they are starting this season off with a lot of stuff, like actual physical items

Yau Man is the guy. He won’t win it, but I’m rooting for him right now. Any of the old people always get my vote. 

Wow this vote is all over the place

Dang. Jessica out of there already. I thought her people would have stuck with her for a little longer (maybe they did and it just still didn’t matter).

Oh dang, not allowed to bring the torches back even. And no flint at tribal council!

Ep. 2

Man. The nothing tribe is in a real bad way

Oh my god. The camp with the stuff isn't doing great either. 

Boo just chopped himself with the axe

Hiking up a big mountain/hill while as dehydrated as they are is spooky 

It really feels like the Raru tribe is at a constant disadvantage with no water or flint 

New idol rules! After votes, before read. Final 5

Ep. 3
Fire with glasses! Awesome! (I think this was Michelle?) 

A slip ‘n slide challenge. Interesting

Come on Yau! You got this! Aw, my boy

Oh no. Papa smurf

Ah, a ‘the locals eat this’ challenge 
Hrmmm. Dislike this challenge 
Hair on the pig nose, delightful

I cannot understand what Rocky is saying half the time

Dang Sylvia. All that work with the shelter and you didn’t even get to enjoy it

Ep. 4
“Let’s Call Jeff on the Jeff Phone” is an excellent episode title

Dang Rocky, you suck

Oh hey I think I know this challenge. Are people going to duck down here to let people over or is that not this time?
There they go!

Poor Anthony. Being the brunt of a lot of anger

Gary did his best. 

Oh dang! Gotta swap the immunity for the camp

Dreamz trying to do the same thing that poker player man did and have an open discussion about who to vote out. I do not see this going well for him

Ep. 5
Really doesn’t make sense that the team that keeps losing just keeps getting disadvantages. No food, makes you worse at challenges, means harder to get food/rested

This challenge seems physical without actually being dangerous like the wrestling pole (for example) (the sumo with cushions one)
Yeah Yau! Get it!

Wow, they really set that up like it was going to be a challenge and then Moto just wrecked the other tribe in the last round. Not even a full second

Love that Rocky was all talk and then got taken down.

This poor guy on Moto trying to make plans for the future and everyone else is like “nah, we good” (I think this was Alex)

6 episodes and Ravu still hasn’t won a single challenge! Wow. Disaster tribe, but that really isn’t their fault at this point

My boy Yau sticking in this much longer than I thought he would 

Does everyone have their own torch? Are they all the same or is it one to one?

Ep. 6
New tribes!?
Not even a merge, just new tribes

Yeee Yau not the last to be chosen!

Daaang. Rock paper scissors for just the change at choosing

I feel bad for Anthony getting stuck with the new guys tribe

Dang, now that they actually have fishing supplies, Ravu can actually eat

What a strange challenge with the pole maze. Just running into each other
This just seems like its begging for someone to get hurt. Pinched in between the poles
There was a lot of pushing in that challenge, both within teams and from other teams

Welp, there’s Anthony gone
Yup. I was hoping it might be Rocky, but nope

Ep. 7
Yau my man! Got the idol!
 
Fill in that hole right now, my brother. Before everyone gets back!

I guess that’s a flame thrower. Technically

The video quality on this episode seems lower
Yau!! Let’s go! Other team making fun of him and he gets it!

Ravu finally won a challenge! It only took half a season and a complete rework of the tribe!

An arcade. A very strange reward, lol
Those hotdogs have GIANT buns. There were like 3 hotdogs in each

Daaang, they’re throwing up after their reward. That happened last season after they got alcohol too. I guess that eating junk after weeks of rice and fish will get to you

Yau you devious rascal. Making your own idol. Doing it in front of everyone, eeeeh. Not so devious.

I like this break the skull challenge

“Switch out with me”  gets up on the platform “I’m blind” - Boo

Yeah Moto!

“One of the reasons Moto never won was because of his attitude” (talking about Rocky)
Yes.  Even they recognized that

“There are some clues, but it’s all really vague” -Lisi
It told you literally exactly where it was

Yes he is goooone
No he is nooot - Jury for Rocky. Uhg

Ep. 8
Wow. They just dug that idol up with the other two members sleeping right next to them (including the one who told them where it was!)

"You have to get up real early to fool me" -Lisi not knowing they already have 

"I don't take challenges seriously" -Lisi
What?

Moto getting into the dance. My mam Yau sitting out though 

Wow they cannot spear

Yaaaauuu-Maaaaan with that throwing spear!
With the dart, the spear, and the arrow for moto's team! My guuuy

YAAAAUUUU

Lisi out. Not a surprise 

Ep. 9
Everyone to exile island?
Is this the “twist” that you were talking about?
Are they going to live in the place filled with snakes?

They took everything away!?
Rude. Rude, Mr. Probst

They are not about to make tribes again?
Okay. Still one tribe, just in teams. That’s fine

So are they going for group immunity still?
Apparently. Goodness

My man Yau at it again

Come on Yau team! You got this!
Oh no! They’re panicking!
Yeeeesssss. My Man

Direct to council!? Oh my.
And an artificial cliffhanger as live survivor is about to start

Dang. Only the artificial tribe at tribal. Such little info.

Ep. 10

“Who do you not want to see after this challenge?” 
Everyone on Stacy. Rude

“Just brainwash him, basically.” - Yau talking about Dreamz
Yau playing to win

“Oh yeah yeah yeah. Gollum” 

Dreamz told that they found the immunity idol! He did it. They knew he’d do it

Woof this challenge. Use your elbows to keep yourself up. No way.
This challenge will go for more than one hour

Come on Yau! Yeeeaaah!

Man, I wish they showed that idol hand off between Mookie and Alex from not a close up shot. I bet it was super not a smooth hand off if they weren’t super zoomed in

This episode. So much scrambling for who to vote for. 

Alex played the idol! They did it! Alex’s face!
Yeeeee! They pulled a fast one for sure!

Ooo. The idol will be rehidden

Ep. 11
“They’ll be lucky if they get fed” 
Daaang, Stacy

“If I need their vote at final two” 
Do they not know it is 3 because it was shot as the other one aired? Is it still final three now?

Oh dang, Boo
POP! Woof

I thought those two were being smart. I thought the two guys were purposefully dropping information for the two girls who were listening in. Were they really just oblivious to them being there or is this part of the plan?
If it was on purpose, it’s genius. If it was on accident, whew
It was on accident.

They’re shaking Yau down.
Yeah. Stand up for Yau! My man.

They playing battleship?
Alex the only one not doing a diagonal. 
Okay Dreamz. Interesting choice on targeting your own block
Cassandra did it too
Rough being out there for so long
Stacy untouched so far
Stacy takes out the last two with one hit!

Alex turning on Mookie and stopping the intended split between the other 6. Fantastic

Ep. 12
Ripping meat off a hook onto a plate.. Interesting

Yau looks so tiny in his life jacket on the river

Boo talking too much

They avoided racial stereotypes pretty well in the last season all about race and then Yau comes in complaining his kid is not getting an A in math, lol

This digging challenge seems rough. No indication of where the steps are hidden in the sand at all

Alex trying to climb to the top of the pole. I would have done the same. Good on Boo for getting up there though

Come on Cassandra, stay the course. Don’t fall for Alex’s plot 

Got a feeling my boy Yau is out today.
He didn’t play it. He’s gone
He’s still in it!
My booooy!

Ep. 13
Boo being sneaky with his back path to the water 
Boo too busy hiding he completely missed them planning his downfall 

They called that it was a car

Dang. My man can't balance 
Good on Dreamz though. He is very determined 
Nice. They caught up
Yau! My man got a new car and caught the keys as they were launched 
My man Yau giving up the truck and going to exile by his own choice
Man plays hard. Looking for that second idol

Jeff is dressed just like the school kids

Yau not winning this balance challenge
Did a lot better than expected 

Yau telling Earl where the idol is. Good guy Yau
Yau played his idol! Make it count! 

My boy! You've done it again

Stacy told Earl one thing and then said another at tribal council. If she had kept to her story, she wouldn’t have tipped off Yau
Ep. 14
Boo is doing serious work to stay in this game

I think Yau is going out next change they get

Hmm. Maybe we watched this one. I feel like I remember watching Cassandra not even being able to find the maze

Yau doing well so far though. I assume he is keeping to the keep left rule. I bet we watched it specifically for that reason.

MY BOY! He did it!

Boo and Dreamz fighting over Yau, lol

First two Boo votes with faces in the Os, lol

“That’s like Rush Hour” -Earl talking about his and Yau’s friendship. Gotta love it

They are really being short with their remembrance lines. “Lisi.” *goes to video footage*

This remembrance footage is reminding me that they really stopped showing footage of them getting food/fishing. I wouldn’t be surprised if they just stopped spear fishing once a lot of the younger guys were gone

Oh my god. This challenge is just one step away from a medeival torture device 
Hanging from a bar on a large rack. And the water is falling where it is almost dripping on your face

What an absolutely wild device for them to build
Yau weighs so little. It’s like he’s holding nothing 
I’m trying not to hold my breath. A lot riding on Earl here

Dreamz didn’t give up the challenge. Is he going to keep his word?

Woof. They didn’t know about the final three. Tough call for sure

“Whatever you do, you have to live with it.” -Yau to Dreamz. Woof, buddy. Rough

Yup. Saw him keeping it coming. 
Yau did well, but I think it is finally his time. 

Very tough choice for Dreamz. Yau did well through it all. Hopefully he gives his vote to Earl.

Jeff’s weird ring pocket shirt makes a return.

Cassandra not giving a great case for herself. 

Wow. Alex is a jerk

Lisi calling out Cassandra on her shoes. Jeff looking at Lisi like “What is your point? What are you doing? You’re saying she came out here ill prepared and she is still here? That is to her credit?”

These people on the jury really don’t seem like they understand what is going on here. 

Oh boy. Here comes Rocky
Charming as always, Rocky

Prediction that Cassandra gets no votes 

I think I might have heard some screeching from the crowd as Jeff walked through

How long after the shoot do they read the votes? They have to air the season first, so it must be a while. 

Let’s go Earl. Sweep this 

SWEEPED IT! ALL 9 VOTES!?

Dang. Dreamz gave up the idol and that was actually what cost him.

Reunion: 
He didn’t know he was coming on?

HADN’T SEEN THE SHOW? Earl rocking shop. 

Dreamz is so slippery in his answers. 

They better do the thing where they have a vote to who gets a consolation prize. 

“Why did you trust Dreamz?” lol

There is a jump scare in the Reunion show. The video statics out and makes a loud noise. I had to go back to check that it wasn’t my computer. Made me jump both times


