Gabon
Thoughts:

PicturE
PicturE

This season started out pretty slow for sure. Coming off of Fans vs. Favorites did not help it either. Something it did have going for it was that right off the bat there were a lot of stand out personalities. Even if they didn’t stay long, they gave time to a lot of people and there was a lot of getting to know them. Also Gillian and Bob both came in with a sort of appearance that made them stand out a little more - I got a similar feel as to Lill. Bob’s bowtie and Gillian’s BBC sarafi show leader-style outfit, as well as their age, made them stand out (Randy’s hawaiian shirt too). In the end it was a lot stronger of a season than I thought it would be initially. It really pulled through in the end. Just like my man Bob.

I feel like they’ve gotten a lot better about Exile Island since they introduced it. At the beginning, they just sent people out and then you wouldn’t see them. I think this time, you at least saw a bit about each player who went there every time. That may be a consequence of the people they sent this time though. Dan went and failed to find the idol. Sugar went and found the idol and then just made the ‘comfort’ her fort. Then Bob went and searched until he made his own idol. Finally Susie went there during a really stressful camp time so she had something positive to say about being there. 

Having the idol not be used until the very last chance and having there be the one idol would have made things kind of boring. Bob decided to come in and play by his own rules though. Was Yau-Man the first one to make a fake? I feel like I remember him mentioning someone else; but I could just be combining my thoughts of him making the idol with Ozzy giving him credit for the idea. This was on another level though. Jeff mentioned that people were upset he threw it in the fire. You’ll find in my notes that I was also upset, hah. But that ended up so good. It couldn’t have been much better. Randy being so confident in his plan working to perfection only to have everyone laugh at him. 

As for the tribes, I called out Fang as being a disaster tribe early on and they just kept to that. At one point they were 9 to 11 losses to challenges. They got it together a little bit after two swaps, but not long after it went to individual immunity. They were a piece of work for sure. It’s down in my notes, but GC insisting on them having three meals a day is crazy talk. You only have so much rice to go around. They were a super dysfunctional family. Meanwhile, Bob was making furniture for the Kato tribe and life was sweet. Bob held that camp together, sometimes literally with string. 

I think there were also a few challenges in here that I hadn’t seen before and that particularly stood out. I don’t think I’ve seen the ‘don’t drop the ball or it’ll break’ one or the batting away fruit and you get to keep what you collect. I enjoy seeing repeat challenges because I have an idea of how it will go, but I also enjoy seeing new ones and how they differ. 

I guess let’s start with Kenny. He was an odd one. There were times that I thought he was just trying to hit on all the women; but I think he did a lot more and was a lot more by the end. He was a really good liar when it came to convincing people of his plans/stories; but he was also super gullible. When they introduced him as a ‘professional videogamer’ I was very curious what that was going to mean in the mid-to-late 2000s. I thought maybe Counter Strike, DOTA, or Quake. Nope. It was Super Smash Brothers Melee. After hearing that I was like ‘yep, that makes perfect sense.’ It also makes sense as to why he hadn’t had a date in many years (like I’m one to talk there, lol). I asked one of my friends (Kaiser) who used to be real into Melee and he knew who Ken was. He even knew what he was known for in that scene. 

Randy and Corinne can share a paragraph. They were both very unpleasant for different reasons. I think Jeff said it well in the reunion episode where he pointed out that they were both rude, but at least Randy was likable. Corinne was just bad, she seemed like a bad person and didn’t really make me feel different when she spoke during the reunion. Randy seems like he might have been a stealth bad person, but also he had some goofs during the reunion that made me not sure. Also he just brought randos to the reunion!? That was good. 

Sugar seemed smarter than the others gave her credit for. She seemed to know when people were trying to use her; but at the same time there were some instances where she just believed them (specifically Kenny) at face value, so who knows. She spent so much time on Exile that who’s to say what she did or didn’t know. Good on her for finding and keeping that idol (even though she gave it to Ace for some reason at one point??) until the end. She wasn’t a threat, enough people knew she had it, so she never had to use it and never got it back into circulation.

Susie. I made several notes of like ‘what is she doing’ and ‘she’s still here’? She almost won it. She was so close. Somehow. Good on her I guess; but I would have been upset if she had won. She did not outwit. She only barely outplayed. She only outlasted because she wasn’t a threat. That is a strategy I guess, but Bob outwitted and outplayed so much more. Also, Sugar might not have outplayed, but she definitely outwitted Susie. She had much more to do with votes and where they went and that’s with her being away at Exile so often. 

My mans Bob over here though. The man makes TWO fake idols and people believe him both times. The idea that he had the one they threw into the ocean was genius level play. Him gathering random stuff from around the camp to make the idol and taking string from the Exile Island clues. Unbelievable. The man’s a legend. And he was good at the challenges to the point where he had no business being that good. He worked hard to win both of those prizes (Sole Survivor and Fan Favorite in the same season!?). Just incredible. 

In conclusion:

This is the most expensive cookie Susie will ever find. 
It cost her One Million Dollars


Also this man will turn anything into a bowtie 


Ep. 1
“... one of the last untouched places on the planet”-Jeff
Untouched by humans? Civilization? Industry? 

Bowtie man
Olympic athlete

I don’t know these people. Where are my familiar faces? I’ve been spoiled by fans v faves

This is a long first episode. I think maybe the last season also had a long first episode, but some before did not

Oh yeah HD! Full screen finally
4k -Er 
1080p- Er 
720i (probably?)

A proper introduction between the castaways

I was wondering yesterday when they would have an esports player on 

This fella in a suit 

Nice shirt Randy! I think I know about you. I feel like I’ve heard about you

Another suit guy

English grandma? 

I like how no one can remember names

I like G-sizzle 

Starting out with a schoolyard pick. Rough way to start 

Ooo. First whole tribe up the hill gets the extra food

I am already concerned for Bob physically 
Bill Nye looking old man

Go go go Jeff! First time I’ve seen him actually running, looks winded, lol

Is that the olympic athlete having trouble up the hill?

“Special two hour premier” 
So I guess it is unusual at this point 

What’s with the huts? Not enough supplies around to build stuff on their own?

Get it Bob! Good on you

Ken trying to make his move on these girls 
Ken. I think I know whether or not a romance will start there, bud
Prove me wrong though

“Ace gets on my nerves. He just never shuts up”
Followed immediately by:
“I’m the full package”- Ace
Good edit

That elephant is too close

Oh my god that is quite a gash, Randy
 
Medical on day one. That is a lot of blood 

Bob’s team seems a lot more well equipped 

Okay, Ace. That’s an… interesting idea (group yoga “clearing chakras”)

Oh my god that’s a long puzzle 
“Leech filled swamp”
They’re really putting them through it right at the start
Lol, they’ve got the physics teacher at the puzzle

Bob’s team just destroying the challenge. The other team didn’t even get around the corner. Yeesh

Whoever was complaining about the nurse’s team not being very strong may have had a point

Two tribal councils. I can’t remember if that’s normal or not

Can they get in the water? They keep showing shots of things in the water, but idk if that’s their lake

Gillian is just a lamb for slaughter it seems

Someone (Dan) wore their tie to tribal. Use it while it’s good I suppose

Oh my god. So many people talking at once at this first tribal 

“It’s the deathknell to be the leader”-Gillian
I think that’s right

Jeff is acting as a group counselor today [more than usual]

Having the initial immunity idol seems strange to me. Like the most physically fit people will get it if you tell them where it is and they are the ones you want to keep at the start anyway. 

Welp, there goes Ken’s ally and romance potential

GC getting power he didn’t really want 

That is a lot of food they made. That seems like maybe too much to start with

Charlie is crushing so hard on Marcus, lol

Large Onion Alliance, huh? Not quite the Black Widows 

Randy trying to explain to GC that he doesn’t need to use clean water for rice because they’re going to boil the water for the rice and he’s just not getting it. 

That’s a proper spear in that fishing set

Okay, Exile Island is back

Ball rolling challenge
Bob up on the ball!
Collision!
How’d they catch up?
It’s like giant croquet with those gates
Let’s go Kota! You got this! 
Okay that wasn’t as close as it seemed.  Fang did much better this time though

There are sure a lot of white people on this tribe

Bob using his Maine knowledge 
Wow that is a lot of fish they’ve got already

One apple? They really listened to James on this one.
The apple, Eden

Wow that is far away

“Across the lake… sandy crater”
“It could be in the lake” - what?

That is one of the most straight forward clues they’ve given. 

Gillian on her way out? Makes sense 
Gillian playing all the cards she can. 
I don’t think you’re going to be able to get the big threats out of the game this early. The tribe still needs those big threats

Nice job Randy!
Make your own fishing kit 

They did it! Nice!
Did they not descale the fish?

Dan talking too much about the idol 
People think he has it 

Can Gillian convince them to turn on Dan? Can she pull this off?

“It was!?” -Jeff asking about GC being the leader
Surprised about him not being the leader anymore

Jeff very proud of them for hacking a fishing hook into the game, lol

“Did you all talk about it”-Jeff
“You know we did!”-Crystal

Dan tipping out his bag to show he doesn’t have the idol, lol

First time I think I’ve seen anyone stand up during tribal council 

This has been a very chaotic first episode. This tribe is a mess and it hasn’t even been that long 

Gillian is waaay out of the loop here. Voting for Ken. Not even going in on the guy who the rest of them were suspicious of (Dan).

Gillian being out makes sense for the tribe. People seemed annoyed with her and she just wasn’t helping with challenges
She seemed nice though

“When you work together, you are successful. Now you just need to do it … a little more often” 
Jeff dragging them, lol

Ep. 2
Three meals a day!?
GC refused to lead, but he also refuses to listen

They had one day of unity where they went fishing. That was it 

Kota is doing so well, especially compared to Fang

Oof. The pole challenge. This one always gets uncomfortably physical 
Ace yawning on the pole, lol
Nice grip there Dan. Oh dang they got him off fast!

They’ve done this on sand before, this seems so much more uncomfortable. Dirt and grass
Is it first to three? Ah, just three rounds

Yeah Bob and Marcus! Get it!

Fang finally made it! Good for them
I saw them picking Sugar to go to Exile Island
So did she, lol

It’s hard to tell what is wildlife footage and what is them actually panning over 
Which I guess is the point, but kind of annoying 

Sugar found the crater! Oh wow. That is a lot- nevermind she found it!

They wouldn’t let her get in the water with crocodiles, would they?
She got it! 
Good job sugar!

To solve a math puzzle. I wonder which team member will be doing that part (Bob)

Slip-sliding all the way down.
The first ones were almost completely even. Fang way ahead now
Closing the gap! Overtaking!
Nice Charlie! Straight off the slide into a swim

How expensive is it to get all these materials to the sites to build the puzzles?

Oooo, they’ve got the gamer against the teacher
Bob no! Don’t let me down physics boy!
The Gamer got it over the physicist!? Woof

At least Kota was planning on getting someone out already

Jeff sassing Fang about not being at tribal tonight, lol

For all the good work they’ve done, Kota is falling apart at the seams already too

Paloma airing dirty laundry about Ace at council, lol

“Is Ace an asset?” -Jeff
“Yeah. He’s condescending sometimes”
I don’t think she heard asset

Hypothetical Ace and Paloma as siblings
“When I’m dead”-Paloma
“WOW”-Jeff with real big eyes

“If Ace wins a million dollars I’ll probably never watch Survivor again” -Paloma in her exit scene

Ep. 3
“That sucked. I really don’t want to do that anymore”
The group talking about tribal council

That’s part of the game, friends

This season feels like it has a particularly long intro (opening credits)

I have seen that clip of that hippo so many times in three episodes

Oh, this totem challenge. They showed this at the end of the last episode. 
This is so much messier than the hidden name challenge. It’s just explicit 

Lol, Crystal is taller than Randy even on the lower pedestal 

Suzie as the least valuable tribe member, makes sense. We haven’t seen much from her

New tribes! Lol
They’re all so reluctant 
They just formed their alliances, lol

Is anyone going to go out of order?
Ope, Bob got skipped over
Makes sense for Marcus to choose Charlie 
Bob sitting up there so high on the totem poll and yet he’s just chilling 
Bob has proven himself capable and yet he’s still just hanging out

Ken just choosing someone because they’re ‘hot’

Randy and Bob making the old man group

Aah, Sugar with the filler position.

At least she gets to choose comfort this time because she found the idol (if she gets the option)

“If it’s not me, I’ll go along with it”-Randy
He’s looking out for himself, but I guess that’s an easy choice to make when your former tribe is in the minority 

That is a lot more than a single apple that was in comfort before

Lacrosse + rafts, interesting
Nice job Randy
Marcus is too good at this
Oh my god, Marcus and Randy are doing this game on their own
There are not two teams, there are just two players
Anyone standing up on the raft seems like they’re doing it wrong
That was 100% Marcus and Randy. That was the exact thing Randy needed to show he was an asset 

“It was like we were legless chickens racing against sleak weasels”-Ace
His voice came out like oil. Those words just sort of seeped out 

They are showing so many votes before Jeff reads them this time

That’s the first time I think I’ve noticed Jeff having difficulty snuffing a torch. It just wouldn’t go there for a second

Ep. 4
Ace on the outs now that Jacky’s gone

Sugar, you should have played it up that it was rough

Did he just come across an elephant? Is it hurt? Is it giving birth? What’s going on?
They’re just excited that it’s a live elephant. Don’t blame them

What are they doing? Are they going closer?
Do they want to die?
Survivor isn’t deadly enough for you already?

Aww. That’s just rude. Destroying the fruit
Do they get to keep the fruit they keep? Yee
A whole herb garden!?

Oh my god, Bob’s buff is a bow tie. I’ve seen that he has had it tied around his neck before, but it was very defined today

Ace really on defense 
Randy doing great on catching!

Yeah Kota! So close! Sugar might be missing out on camp life, but her relationship with Ace is already solid and she just gets to hang in her comfort shack

GC digging his own grave by not keeping his mouth shut 

If they have to leave without GC…
Aww.  I wanted to see what would have happened

I feel like I’ve seen this challenge before. Rolling balls down a hill and trying to have a blind folded person block
Is this why I know Randy? Does he pull something here?

Randy is a caller, so he may misdirect the other team
What happened to Ace? Shield face

Yes! He told Ace to stop! He did it! That is why I knew it!

They have to get rid of GC here, right?

GC looking for a way out now. He was probably going anyway, but now it’s his choice 

“I might call upon you to use the idol”-Ace to Sugar
He’s so blatantly using her 

“It’s in my bag, but no one is looking for it”-Sugar
Immediate cut to them looking in her bag

GC wants to go, but now he doesn’t get to, lol. Gotta get Sugar out while she doesn’t suspect it

Sugar being very coy about the idol. Very slippery 

Is Sugar going to be the first one to go home with an idol this season?
Looks like they decided to let GC go home after all
Now it’ll be a little easier to know that this isn’t my research notes doc. I kept seeing GC and reading Globular Cluster

Ep. 5
Marcus(?) and Ace making an alliance. We’ll see how long that lasts

Dan was taking a lot of food there

Sugar, what are you doing? You’re just giving it up unprompted? You’re that confident they aren’t going to flush out the idol?

Ace just doing an interview and then an elephant just blows up his shot, lol

Randy so happy they got rid of GC, lol

That snake is quite large
Two people left on the snake. What was the olympic athlete an olympian in? Wasn’t it running?
Bob is really putting in the work

Sugar back again to Exile Island!?

“More than winning challenges, I love watching them lose”-Randy
Rude, Randy

Dan is really distancing himself from everyone

Is there a secret second idol? Is Sugar missing out on something by continuing to choose comfort?

Crystal is going out on the hunt for the others talking about her, lol
“I hope they don’t think I’m going to same way as GC”-Crystal
They’ve already decided you are

Is this turtle going to injure someone?

I’m shocked that Susie is still here

Ah, a flag pole challenge
This seems very involved though. Many obstacles 
Ah, they’re tied in pairs, missed that part
Bob the fisherman getting those knots fast
Sugar has had all that rest and she’s still dragging
Nice catch Crystal, minimize that down time
Ace and Crystal really did good work
Oh my god Dan and Marcus - both last pairs are getting through that like nothing
They’re just going right over it!
Over both obstacles!
They going over this one too? Yeee
This will be close for getting it back at least. Still have to do the puzzle though
Wow Fang wasn’t even close on that second part

Jeff giving Fang shade about acting as individuals. Well earned Probst-scolding 

SUGAR JUST TOLD KEN ABOUT THE IDOL!?
Why? Why would you tell him?
Okay, she took it back at least

“We’re cursed… there’s something in our rice”-Matty
Yeah, the thing in your rice is the lack of rice

Crystal taking charge of this council

Daaaaang Ace
“Honestly I’d be surprised if you understood what I was saying half the time”
Ace talking to Kelly

Is Ace the only one in the back row of seats?

Kelly makes sense from what they were talking about and how that tribal just went, lol

That was the second time he’s had trouble snuffing a torch. The snuff-er doesn’t seem great this season

Crystal flipping off Kelly in the confessional, lol
Ep. 6
Woof Crystal. Spilling out the rice

“...if he was a former fatty or …”-Corinne
Well okay then

That’s a proper reward for a whole tribe. Usually that sort of thing is reserved for individual reward

Jesus Randy, tackling Ken to get that ball to hit the ground
This is an interesting challenge. Haven’t seen it before 
Oof Bob! Bob is doing work and they are just not caring. He got it!
Sugar doing nothing. 
Kota wins … again

Is that 6 in a row? Ah, 5 losses in a row. 

5 times in a row for Sugar to Exile! Oof!

Bob nearly leaning out of the helicopter he is so excited, lol

Matty is gunning for Sugar and then Ace says one thing and then Matty’s like ‘fine, Crystal then’

Bob really taking the letters from home hard. His voice is so high, lol

Both tribes going to council? But still individual immunity? But not a merge?

Log roll, huh?
Dan -’I need to win this by a lot’ 
* Is the first one out and doesn’t last long 
Crystal out. Another loss for Crystal 
Man Kenny is skinny 

I thought Bob had long socks on but his legs are just so white!
Bob taunting! And he did a backflip! What a guy

Wow Charlie V Ace was very close
Bob in the water first by a foot!

“You’ll be ridiculed back home!” -Jeff to Bob about falling off the log to Sugar after saying he won a log roll competition in college 

Ooo. Someone else gets immunity from the other  tribe

Immunity to Sugar!? Smart move. 

Ken you are really trying hard here. Not sure it’s going to work, but good try 

Ooo, Ace confirming Ken’s story

Every single Tribal council, lol
“Get to your point then I’ll talk”-Crystal
She is just going off

“The perfect seat in this great Shakespearian drama”-Jeff about this tribal
Lol

Did Crystal give it to Ace? Looks like no. Who’d you vote for Crystal?

2v2 Crystal-Ace
Who's going

Aaaaay Sugar! Pulled a fast one on him
Ace-hole I assume is what that blurred thing was, lol

Susie why did you say that?

She says one thing and Corine says she hates her? I’m sure that’s just the edit, but yeesh

Are they just not talking to Bob at all? 

Dan coming to every single tribal in his full get-up

Susie doesn’t really seem to be playing the game. Randy has just been laying back, but that was specifically his strategy. Susie might not have been getting much air time for other reasons, but she just doesn’t seem like she’s got anything going on.

Pretty close here
Dan after all!? Dang
I thought Suzie was done for sure. 

Maybe now they’ll have some food

Ep. 7
9 out of 11 challenges!?

Not even coy about the merge in the tree mail

Did she just say “there’s mixed nuts!”? Is that what you're excited about here?

Charlie giving up the clue to everyone. I guess that’s smart. You don’t want people knowing you have it
Send it adrift!

The ocean doesn’t need the immunity idol. It’s already been voted off the island.

Is it not a merge? Yuuuup. Two new tribes!
How much of a mix up do we have here?

Bob has just stuck with Kota for so long

Sugar found out Kenny played her!

Susie is going to screw this all up for the rest of Kato

This challenge seems rough. Like holding imaginary buckets of water
Wow Crystal. One second
Corinne proving that she has a bit more strength than Susie after that comment at tribal. 
Come on Bob! Just one more!
Matty seems much cooler than Bob right now
“Don’t start listening to anyone, including me”-Jeff
So close!

Susie’s the swing vote. I have no idea what she’s going to do. 

Like corporate espionage, you don’t know what’s going on - Crystal
Lol

Susie made her decision already then. What’s it going to be?

If there were a hidden name challenge, Marcus would absolutely get the “Who mistakenly believes they are running this game?” vote

2v2. What’d you do Susie?
Oooooo Marcus out and onto the Jury!
I had a feeling, but I wasn’t sure
I wouldn’t quite call that a blindside. I feel like he had a feeling at least two of those votes were coming his way and he was suspicious of Susie

Ep. 8
PicturE
PicturE

“If I’m to last, I’m assuming I need to be in a merge. If we’re not in the merge I think I’m history. Even though I teach science”-Bob
Bob being a jokester. A little gallows ‘humor’

Wow. No rice at all

Didn’t they just get new tribes? I don’t know how soon a merge is coming

Everyone seeing Susie’s betrayal 

Wow. They’re going at it like its tribal council and they’re just at the challenge

Slingshot golf. Did they just put the ‘sand traps’ there for aesthetics?

Bob gave it his all there
What are those little mushroom looking things everywhere? 
I feel like putting here is going to be difficult 
Nevermind Kota just nailed the first hole 
Wow, that was almost a hole in 2
Come on gamer boy, missed it
Bob really showing that he deserves to be there
Just barely Kenny! Just barely for Fang too!
Just barely again!
Uh oh. They’re overthinking. Is he throwing this challenge? What is going on here?
They got it, but man they were just playing it up so much

What do they give the villages they visit for reward? It seems like they must give them something in exchange

I still don’t know who is going to win this game

“I kind of think that one of them liked me. I hadn’t had a girl come onto me in about 20 years”-Randy
I think they were being good hosts, bud


For real, Kenny? Lol

Are all women ‘beautiful’ to Kenny? I mean, that’s nice; but idk that’s the sentiment he’s going for. He keeps making that distinction but it is with literally every woman

Poor Bob. There is probably not an idol for you to find
At least we get to see something of someone on Exile Island
Just completely missed the nail in the tree

Is he - Wow. That is a real nice idol!

That’s a heck of a lot better than a carved stick with a guy on it 

Individual!? Yeeeeah Merge time
Bob with his bowtie back with his new buff

Fang tribe called it with who can make fire.
Oh, it really is straight up just the tie breaker.
Randy said something about Crystal not being able to make a fire with a box of matches. We’ll see if they follow the same path as that tie breaker 

Not a ton of sparks going
Susie! She really needs it
I’m surprised Bob isn’t better at this.
I’m surprised Sugar got it too. Maybe she had to do it herself on Exil all that time
Wow Susie! She made it this far and she’s safe for the first merge tribal

I wonder if they felt bad for them not having any rice and  decided to merge them, lol

I forgot about the herb garden

“She’s such a moron” - talking about Sugar
At least I know Sugar’s name. I still can’t remember the name of the person who said this [I’m pretty sure this was Corinne]

Ken is a real player. He’s got those good stories. 

Sugar has been out of the game on Exile so long that she probably doesn’t know what’s true or not

Ooo. Sugar already knows Kenny lied. May work against him

Crystal and Randy going at it council 

Wait, is Sugar crying? Oh she is crying a lot

“My Marcus” Charlie
Lol

That’s the first time I’ve seen Jeff ask who someone voted for. Randy just put down C.C.

4v4 Charlie Crystal
It’s your choice, Sugar
CHARLIE!?
You chose Charlie!? After Kenny lied to you before!?
I guess she just doesn’t want to side with Randy?
Now that’s a blindside 

Ep. 9
Bob looks so sad after that vote

Bob you told her you made a fake!? Why would you tell the person that betrayed your alliance?

Oooh. Is this the auction?
Is Sugar the one who gets cookies and gives them out?
Does she get the cookies and share them with everyone except Randy?

Sugar being devious with upping the price on the beer 

Aww, poor Bob having to go to Exile Island again

Sugar going all in just so Randy can’t have the covered item
Oo. Here’s a bath and a clean set of clothes!

Oh! It’s the “I’m done with my bath” that you were talking about, lol

Kenny gives up the advantage to his competitor!?
Oh, Randy was the one who got the cookies. I remembered it had to do with Randy and Sugar, lol. She just took it to spite him

Alright Bob. Going for the clue again? Woof
Lol, he’s just making his own adventure

Man, after watching last night’s Survivor 42 this season does not look HD despite being widescreen

Randy is going to just blow up and make everyone want to vote for him and then bank on the idol that Bob doesn’t have.

Oh my god
Randy. This vote might actually work but not for the reason he’s thinking
They’re planning on voting for Bob but Randy might actually split the vote by making them so angry 

Something tells me Randy doesn’t get along well with most women and minorities 

He actually worked his plan! He convinced them all to vote for him; but now Bob won’t be able to save him

Puzzle pieces across a balance beam
Oh my god, tripwire dominos. How even?
Corinne to the 2nd round. Thought that’s what the advantage would be 
This first part with the balance beams doesn’t actually seem too difficult
They had all the different beams, but that didn’t do as much as it seemed it might
That didn’t count for Bob!? Stolen 

These tripwires are rough. They’ve all got to cat women their ways through
I imagine they have to use all their blocks
Everyone at the same time!
Corinne just short! Matty doesn’t!
Good job gamer! Immunity for Kenny

Have they ever done it that you can give immunity to another player after the vote has been cast like a hidden idol? I wouldn’t imagine they would do that for each vote, but maybe like a special prize

Bob giving Randy the fake!? Why would Bob do that? That makes Randy so mad at him in the Jury. I guess that would buy Bob some credit with the rest of the remaining players though

Randy is going to hate Bob. He will hate him.

“Let’s start with the auction”-Jeff at tribal
Just bringing it up again. Resurfacing old wounds, lol

Is it possible that this is his game? -Jeff talking about Randy
Don’t out him, Jeff

Crystal just yelling at the confessional vote, lol

Sugar already cracking up
Oh Sugar can’t take it, lol

Crystal cracking up too
Aww, right into the fire for Bob’s good good idol

Randy going out with much more grace than I expected. I expected something more like Chicken

Ep. 10
Clip show? Pretty much

Ep. 11
Bob angy about them laughing

Sugar calling out Corinne for being two faced and she’s upset about it. Corinne called out for Sugar for being dumb and yet Sugar knows exactly what Corinne was doing

Wow. Did they not have an intro? Did they just have so much content

Wow those are some big fish!

I’m surprised Crystal is still here. She has done so poorly in challenges

I think this is the first time I’ve seen a slide puzzle out here

Ay. Look at that little pseudo smart phone

Corinne’s family look like they’re on the set of the Brady Bunch

I’m trying to eat my lunch and they’re pulling out these family messages. I need to not be all teary eyed right now

Team captains, huh? Not just choosing by rocks.
I feel like they should take Bob before some of the others. Even if you don’t like him, you should want to win this challenge 

Corinne not chosen, not surprising 

Sugar just can’t keep up
That swamp is tough
I feel like Bob and Crystal might just be able to pick up Sugar
Bob, Crystal, and Sugar don’t look like they have a chance
Well, maybe?
Dang. I forgot there was another part after the cogs
Come on physics teacher! Do the slide puzzle!
Yeeeee! Good on Bob

Wow. Bob doesn’t even get to choose someone to come with him
They did not! Surprise loved one!
Good for Bob. Even if he goes out he got this

Bob getting to call in everyone like he’s getting the avengers together at the end of Infinity War! Lol

Oh my god Sugar’s dad’s ashes. This episode I cannot

Is Matty about to propose?
He’s rambling at this point, lol
Proposal necklace

Sugar promises Bob he’s good if he tricks Randy and then just goes to vote him off.

Bob you’re doing this again!? Another Fake!?

I mean, good on you playing every card you have, but woof

A trivia challenge
“Gorillas were first discovered here in Gabon, True/False”
Discovered in 1800s by who, Jeff? I’m pretty sure people in Africa knew about gorillas
I call nonsense on that answer of ‘true’

Sugar dominating the questions
Why did they have more balls than questions?
I would have no concept of how hard to throw the balls to hit this target
Good job Bob
Sugar has a lot of chances to overcome Bob’s toss
Oh my god, Bob! 2nd from the center!
Sugar’s last ball rolled through the center!
Bob safe one more time!

They were gunning for Bob, too

I don’t think they’ll fall for their ‘ocean-idol’ story; but I hope they do.

Kenny falling for it!? Yeeeeeeee

“I’m worse than a raven”- Bob
Collecting all the baubles for the idol

Did they just get Crystal in?
Oh no! They are still going for Corinne

Oh well. It was a good play
They said they weren’t going to play the idol, Crystal. You won’t be flushing out the idol because they ‘know’ they have the numbers now. They won’t be playing the idol!

That was a short tribal discussion

I guess Randy is gone so there isn’t anymore yelling

I like how earlier in the episode they were asking how to spell Corinne’s name

The plan almost worked! 

Why is Corinne digging into Sugar in the exit? Lol
Corinne is a piece of work
Ep. 12
So Matty knows one of his people voted for him now

Matty calling Kenny a liar about the idol, but Kenny isn’t lying as far as he knows

The infighting has finally begun

“Did you lie to me?”-Kenny
“No”-Bob
“Then why didn’t she play it?”-K
“It was fake”-B
So yes, you did lie

Bob are you really going to give up the necklace to prove loyalty? Is this happening again?
Already?

Surely it can’t happen again because then Erik wouldn’t be brought up as much now still

I keep forgetting Susie is still here!

Don’t let Susie win. Knowing her bathing routines now, she won’t even use that shower 

At the very least this is just for reward and not immunity. I don’t want Matty to win
Bob is running out of steam. Yes BOB!

Aay, Bob able to redeem himself a bit with Crystal and Kenny

I guess Kenny is letting Bob stick with the necklace to prevent a tie

Susie knows Sugar has the idol, she just gets to relax in comfort 

Wow. Bob might be safe just because Matty is so angry at Kenny and Crystal

Matty finally alone on the tribe. Took Bob’s place

Lol, Sugar actually did steal Kenny’s clean shirt 

Sugar, are you playing up the emotion or are you actually upset?

There have been so many turns in the 2nd half of the season and especially these last few episodes

Just can’t let Matty get it

They have to do a Mr. Potato Head? 
Blindfolded!?

Bob using his shirt to carry pieces, smart
Poor Crystal completely turned around, lol
Her and Jeff are playing Marco-Polo now
You got this Bob!
Now Susie is just gone
Matty is super close
BOB YES!

If he gets out because of this deal with Kenny…
At least he won’t be tricked out of it like Erik

Nooo! Bob! Ken you snake

Hopefully Sugar can pull over Bob to vote out Crystal then

Sugar’s morality going to ruin this plan for them?

Yeeeees Sugar
Yessssss

She is just filled with tears

Sugar is a very good liar

Kenny, for as devious as you are, you are also super gullible 

This will be an interesting tribal council 

Did Randy get a mohawk? Yes he did.

“He’s strong. He’s smart. He’s agile. He’s Bob”-Kenny
Surely someone made that a shirt

Ken and Crystal trying to play a big con here, but I don’t think they’re going to pull it off

Randy so upset by Bob’s “I didn’t make that one”, lol

Yes BOB! YES BOB!

You can just hand the hidden immunity idol to someone!? You can do that?
I have had that question, but I haven’t seen it before

Oh Crystal sweating now

Yes… Bob’s still in this
At least Crystal got to go on the reward trip before she left

Ep. 13
The preview shot of this episode has Bob wearing the immunity necklace in a get-up he hasn’t had on before. Spoilers

Wait! This is the finale? 13 episode season? Haven’t they all been 14 before?
One of those 13 was a clip show!
No one even dropped out, right?

This is such an odd mix for the final 5

Sugar, why do you want Bob in the final three? He’s made some people upset I guess, but he’s played so well
You want Susie in the end. She’s stuck in it, but she’s done nothing 

That is an intense field right there
Bob’s skirt, lol. Bob’s entire outfit

Ope, I thought maybe the opening shot could have been him giving the idol back, but he didn’t stand in the right spot to match up the shot.

Slender little Bob getting -
Ope Susie made it first!

“Sugar squeezing that booty through”-Jeff

This is the kind of challenge I would enjoy doing
This just seems fun
Everyone except Matty really looking lethargic going up to place their pieces
Everyone looking miserable at this point
I knew Bob would win, but Sugar was very close

Is this the first time we have seen Bob without a bowtie? Ope, he had one under another buff

Bob’s fading red body paint just looks like he is recovering from intense surgery, like blood on sutures 

Now Randy has to sit right next to Crystal, lol

The jury laughing at Kenny’s plan being found out

We going Kenny or Susie this time?
Kenny! He proved he wasn’t trustworthy by having his plan against Bob outed I guess

“Almost a given that Bob will win”-Susie
I feel like his streak is about to run out

The remembrance ceremony. A tribal mask this time?
Did they build that little hut in the lake just so they could call it an ‘island’ for Exile Island?

There’s still red in Bob’s mustache from his body paint

They have so much to say about these people this time in the remembrance. Given that the season is shorter, maybe they just needed some more content to fill out the episode

Oh. This is different
They have a welcome committee

I did not think Bob or Susie would be here at this point. Not a chance

They have managed to keep their clothes in pretty good condition

Oh my god. This challenge. 10 ft tall house of cards
I would lose. I would lose every time
This is a physics teachers dream challenge I bet though

Oooh, okay. 30 minute maximum. That is one of the shortest challenges I think we’ve seen.

Sugar doing a good job. Oh my god Sugar. So much taller than everyone else. 
Bob doing nothing. 
Oh. Woof Sugar. All gone. Twice
Matty is going to win this challenge with a 3 ft tall tower. 
Bob. This is literally a physics assignment you could give to your students
I think Bob is finally out of this game.
Susie just stop building. It’s only going to fall down. Yeee
Wow Bob

Wow Susie! Very well done

No way Sugar is going to flip on Matty, right? She wants ‘the good guys to win.’ Does that include Matty?

Susie is really driving people up the wall, lol. 
Sugar seeing a real father figure in Bob
Then she literally said that

Bob would absolutely win a fire making contest
I think Bob has enough jury votes to win too with his previous tribe mates

Corinne does not care about Sugar’s tears

I don’t think Sugar has it in her to tie this vote
I think it’s Bob gone tonight

She did it! Oh my god!
Is he going to pull this out!? 

I guess Bob didn’t do well on this when it was a challenge earlier in the season. So we’ll see

That is a lot of fire. Oh no it’s gone! It’s back a bit
Can he do it? 
Matty has pretty much given up
BOB! YES!

Is it not dangerous to burn the hut in such a dry climate?

These people don’t seem to understand that they’re playing a game. They’re upset at Bob for playing the game well (pre-jury snippets)

This game could very well be Sugar’s
I think Bob has a few surefire votes, but he has made quite a few enemies

Surely they’ll save Randy for last, right?

Sugar’s answer. “I don’t think you have to vote for me”
What?

Sugar might just be throwing this for Bob. Not intentionally, but maybe

Wow Corinne sucks, lol
Yeah. Flip her off, Sugar. She deserves it

Randy was rude, but much more reserved than I expected 

I am now slightly more confident that Bob will win this, but I still have no idea

Matty voted for Susie!?
Ken having some real difficulty it seems

How tall is Jeff Probst?
5’10’’, huh?
He looks shorter

Even Susie is surprised! 
Susie did not play this game the best. She does not deserve this 
3v3! Bob Susie!
Who’s it going to be?
BOB! My man!

Reunion:
“I’m going to look right into the camera. If you’re going to be on the show Survivor - go to REI and buy yourself a flint and practice making fire”-Jeff

“A million dollar cookie”-Randy
My god.
It mattered it so much

They showed Sugar’s license plate?

Corinne has to be a villain, right?
She was right about the edit not portraying her well. I didn’t know her name for a long long time

Jeff ‘why are you like this?’ to Randy, lol

They do IQ tests?
Randy’s “friends”
Strangers, lol
Oh my god
15 TIMES!? He applied 15 times?

“Corinne's one of the nastiest people I’ve ever met and you’re friends with her!?”- Jeff to Charlie

“I am built to run around a circle”-Crystal

“Educate me about gaming” is one of my favorite things Jeff Probst has said 
He’s a Melee player!? I might have actually seen him before
Also suddenly not having a girlfriend for years make sense then

Jeff putting on an accent to call out Ace, lol

Bob got both prizes!? Good for Bob




