Micronesia 
Thoughts:
PicturE
PicturE

Okay. So we’re already 2000 words over the most I’ve written and I haven’t even started the book report. That could be a metric of I care more about what’s happening as I see more of the show, but I felt equally as “in” as I do now for these last few seasons and haven’t written nearly as much. 

So first off: Fans vs. Favorites, great idea. Maybe not for the game, seeing as all the fans were voted off in the end, but for the concept and watching it - great. Seeing all these people who I have come to know was also great (credit to your watch order). I think that is a large part of what made this season so enjoyable and noteworthy for me. I was rooting for Yau, I was rooting for Penner, I was rooting for Amanda. At the same time, I did not care about Abi or Eliza. The familiarity made it that much more engaging. You’ve already developed feelings/opinions about the people and getting to see more of them is great. 

That being said, it is odd to want to see a person return. In my television watching experience, it is all not-reality TV. So any ‘person’ is actually a character. There is a certain extent to which these people are coming on and playing a character or caricature of themselves (“That is a part of me” comes up a lot); but you’re still rooting for your perception of a real life person. It’s odd, but it isn’t bad. 

It is kind of a bummer for the Fans tribe though. Aside from Erik and Natalie, I don’t really remember many of them. And (as my notes say) I didn’t know there even was a person named Natalie until episode 7 and I didn’t know who Natalie was until episode 11. Because I knew the Favorites, I was so heavily rooting for them to win and focusing on them that the other players didn’t get as much of a chance to shine. That might be the fault of the edit, but I think it is largely on me. There is also an aspect of recency bias there. For example, Chet and Joel were noteworthy players as far as ability/personality, but they got voted out relatively early. 

Also, this season was just rough in general. There were so many injuries, physical and mental. People were dropping like flies. Jonny was out by request at the very start (a shock), Penner goes because of his leg (awful), Kathy goes because she’s distraught, Chet goes because he is just physically and emotionally beaten, and James goes because of his finger (see TSC in the notes). And those were just the injuries that made people leave. There were so many bumps and bruises, cuts and scrapes, tears that just had to be dealt with and moved on from. Absolutely brutal season. 

I forgot! I got so caught up in the people that I didn’t mention Exile Island. All the idols made it much more interesting. Two people at once made there a reason to actually be there. I wasn’t expecting them to go back to it after they ditched it for kidnapping in the previous season, but I was happier with this version. 

James was once again a treasure. He played along with Parv’s flirting, but he knew exactly what she was doing. He had just some great reactions this season, on and off the jury. The fact he came in with an IV to the tribal council was something else. The way he comes in and knows the social game isn’t his strong suit, it makes me wonder how many of the return players really think they’re going to win. They have more knowledge, but they also know their weaknesses in the game. He said the social game wasn’t going to be his strong suit the first time too, but now he has experience. 

Erik was such a smol little baby. Turned 22 while he was out there, but still just seemed so child-like. He came from a small town, so that isn’t really that surprising. My hope would be that he learned a lot from this experience, and that he learned the right things. There were some comments about women that he made (that are in my notes) that are like ‘don’t follow that lead down that path, friend.’ But that immunity necklace giveaway. Iconic. Those pictures/comments are still down in the notes for that episode. Just unbelievable. And that I would ask that question about giving it away just before this season, lol. 

Ozzy and Amanda gave Candice and Adam (I had to look up his name from my notes before - I almost just said not-Penner again) a run for their money on the make-out game. Ozzy and Amanda were much more bold about it though, just going at it in the middle of camp. Cirie and Penner commiserating about it was great though. 

Oh! That is the bad thing about caring about the people in the game after they’ve come back. It sucks when they go. Yau-Man and Penner both didn’t last as long as I would have liked; but I am very happy with how the women steered the game in their favor. I did enjoy Yau-Man getting all the cheers and the credit from Oz for making the fake idol. 

My initial thought about Ozzy is that he is built for this game, but I think he is more just built to live in the wild (or on OnlyFans apparently). When I started this venture, I did not think OnlyFans would come into it whatsoever; but here we are. He does really well around camp and that’s great for morale and whatnot; but you know he is too good at challenges and isn’t great at the social game - so he always just has to go. 

Cirie came to play the game a lot more this time for sure. She already knew she could cut it out here after last time and so she was able to focus on playing everyone. She had so many devious plans and kept diverting tension away from herself to others. Her name came up a few times, but I don’t think she was in trouble until the end. She laid back and let everyone do the scheming and planning outwardly while she pulled the strings a lot of the time. 

What can we say about Amanda? We kind of covered it when we talked. She is a great player. She did a lot of  scheming and did well at quite a few challenges. But how she talks to the jury (I want to capitalize ‘jury’ every single time), it’s just bad. She can play the game until the very end and then, nah. To be fair, she was seriously wiped out at that point I’m sure- difficult to do anything well. 

I could say more, but the rest is just sort of in my notes and I feel like I’m starting to ramble. There were so many great bits in this season. So many assumedly iconic moments. Also love when anyone talks back to Jeff and there were several of those moments this season. 
In conclusion:
Parvati did an excellent job. 
Black Widow alliance was an absolute success and a great game changer from the previous seasons.


But he’s the winner in my heart


Also Cirie was robbed of the 100k fan favorite prize. In this essay I will-

Ep. 1
“Some of the most exocitc sea life…”
Which they will eat

Yauuuu my boy

Jeff, get off the edge of the helicopter. It’s dangerous out there

The return of fairplay…

Cirie, good yes

Penner, my lad I know what happens to you…

Wow Jeff is soaked. He’s usually so well groomed, lol

Do I know Amy? I don’t think I know Amy. Also don’t think I know Eliza

Good for James. Got the 100k and the chance at 1 mil

Oh boy Parvati 

Everyone excited for Yau-Man

Good for Amanda 

Reaction to Jonny, here we go

Jeff roasting Jonny! Yes!

Yeah Yau-Man!!! Beat down Jonny!

Oh my god. “Gay. It doesn’t mean you want to be a girl, right?” Oh boy
Kathy is going to be a piece of work

Jonny playing up the dead grandma bit, lol.

Lol, Parvati playing the flirt game with James

Favorites got that shelter built fast. James just destroying the bamboo
Fans.. not so much

Penner and Yau-Man dream team

Penner’s got his hat, lol

Yau-Man bringing in the glasses technique! 

Building the cart challenge
Dang, fans were fast on those wheels

Oh my god the favorites are not doing well in this so far
Oh dang, is she okay? Eliza(?) I think just got flung from the cart and hit her face

No way favorites bring this one back. Fans got this one

At least my man Yau has immunity this first round

Cirie you better not be voted out yet. We haven’t seen anything from you yet

Is Jonny playing it up for the camera or is this the effects of the fight?

A real shame for viewers who are fans of all these people to see one go first. Hoping it is one of the two I don’t know (or it really is Jonny)

Speaking of food, I bet this is great for Yau-Man having started with nothing before. 

Is Jonny really going home? I would be shocked - shocked

SHOCKED

Ep. 2
The episode starts and Ozzy just walks into camp carrying a fish? He never stops

Fans not having much luck with their fire

Fans already falling apart with infighting 

Yau-Man back on fire tending, lol

Ozzy falling for Amanda already! 
Amanda falling for Ozzy too!

Fire for the fans? Fire for the fans! Good for them

So much flirting in this season already!
This might be what you were talking about this season being interesting as far as the women’s games go

Is that Amanda and Ozzy making out? Yes, yes it is
They are really going at it! lol

Fans applauding voting out Jonny, fantastic

A challenge that involves swimming? Alright Ozzy
Oh! Exile Island is back!? Strange

So many different aspects to this challenge. Immunity, reward, exile island, secret extra thing. 

Jason getting to prove himself against Ozzy (not this time)
Oh no Chet can’t do it
Good job Parvati 
Nice work on the lilly pads Penner, very smooth
Not nice work on the key. There we go!
Favorites definitely got this in the bag
Got my man Yau-Man on the puzzle 
A kiss for Yau-Man, lol

Fishing gear for Ozzy, good good

Jeff loop shirt!

Ooo island twist. Cirie! Good on you. 
Two people on the island. I would think Yau would want to go out there, but I would imagine the group wouldn’t want him out there idol hunting

They’re working together, huh? What happens if they find it?

Cirie and Kathy getting a work out!
They are making them work for the idol. 

They are really putting a lot of work into this vote. 
Huh, are they actually going with the convoluted plan? Looks like they don’t know what plan they’re going with
Okay. Looks like Mary going after all

I’m not sure who I want to win this game, a fan or a favorite. 
Obviously I want Yau to win, but again I don’t think he’s going to make it. He’s proven me wrong before, but I think people are wize to his shenanigans 

Ep. 3
PicturE

“Chet counts as a girl” Oh mid 2000s masculinity 

You want to get rid of Yau-Man because of (lack of) strength? The man won so many challenges!

Cirie being devious, lol

Ozzy so excited about the war paint
Lol, Yau’s paint mustache 

This game is like a elementary school PE game
Get your bags and some enemy bags into your goal

Both of those rewards are surprisingly reasonable. No one’s going for frivolous items yet

Yeeeah Yau-Man! Get that point!
Dang Erik! Straight up flip Amanda!
Get it James! Amanda! Get it Penner! Go go go!

James knows exactly what Parvati is doing. That look on his face

Cirie looking to be full on courted for her vote, lol

“If Yau goes to Exile Island” they know he’s dangerous 

Kathy playing it dumb, lol. Good on her for not letting on.

Things are going awry at Airai

Favorites are all wrapped up like the grandparents from Charlie and the Chocolate Factory in that tarp

Yes. This was necessary. Thank you for asking. Next question. 

Wow. Fans are not in a good way. They are shaking bad

I keep forgetting about Ami and Eliza 

Oh, interesting challenge. I don’t think I’ve seen this one before

Holding the net will be hard with last night’s rain
They had Parvati on holding?
Wow, Faves are not doing well
YAU with the first coconut!
Penner congratulating and calling out the other team, lol
Come on Faves, you got this
Oh dang. It’s really getting to them

Wow. I was sure the faves were going to get that. Too hard for the throwers to get any coconuts in on the faves team

Penner just coming in and breaking up the group.
I know it isn’t Penner because he has to go home for infection. So it must be Yau today

Penner, why are you yelling at Cirie? That’s not helping.

Stick to your guns Ozzy!

No way Parvati goes out today. If Penner doesn’t get the rest of his people to vote Eliza then Yau is absolutely gone

The sound editing during tribal council. The light gong noise when someone says someone’s name and it cuts to them

Jeff smiling at Penner and Cirie arguing 

Penner always with something to say (during voting)

Yau-Man is absolutely out today.

Someone voted Cirie!? What does this mean? Who voted Cirie?
Dang, 4 for Yau means he’s gone

Saw it coming, but still disappointed

I feel like they could have campaigned to vote Cirie out between the two splits 

Ep. 4
The Faves are falling apart at the seams 

“We really should have gotten rid of Eliza last night” - James
Well too late now

I feel like they could have gotten rid of Cirie and there would be a lot less arguing. It would have thrown things to a tie in the two groups within the tribe though, which is super sketchy 

“Yeah, but you dying” - James to Eliza, lol

“I hope they get sicker than I am and have to be removed from the game” - Eliza
Your curse didn’t hit its intended target
[edit: or maybe it did]

This isn’t the first time we’ve seen the coconuts in a cage, right? Maybe that was in the future or maybe we just watched this one

Maybe we watched this one because it looks like Ozzy is doing a lot of work to start. Breaking the challenge
10 coconuts! That’s so many
Wow Ozzy got them a huge lead
James got the puzzle! 

Faves going to win all the rewards and lose all the immunities 

Kathy being focused for exile. Trying to just run down her spirit (and also not give more people clues I imagine)

Idol for Ozzy? Idol for Ozzy!

That’s a real tall hat you’ve got there Oz. Didn’t notice a thing

Also he came back with no food?

Aay, trying to make a fake idol like Yau
Just a smooth piece of wood? Sure

Penner coming up from behind Parvati and Eliza like a shark, lol

Oh. This is no- oh yes it is the challenge I thought it was. At least the part about sliding through the puzzle in the sliding harnesses 

Nice job Faves. Lucky on those keys
Have any of the faves done this challenge before? I know I’ve seen it, but I’ve watched everything back to back so I can’t remember who did what challenge. Did James do this?

Good job Faves. Sticking with it, keeping their lead
Faves absolutely have this. Cirie and Eliza almost have it. Got it!

Stacy(?) playing hard to get Mikey out and keep her alliance together

Man, Joel isn’t just a firefighter. He is the firetruck. He is a brick of a man

He just stopped Jeff as he was getting up to say it’s vote time. Bold move, Jason! Bold move

Chet doesn’t seem like he’d be too against leaving at least
All it would take is someone not voting Chet to get Mike out now

Who else voted Mike!? I must know
Oh dang, was that Erik who voted Mike?

Ep. 5
Ope. Preview for the next episode tells me Penner is on his way out.

I think the last time they had chickens they just wrung its neck. Didn’t try and chop its head off

Why hide the idol where someone else could find it?

“I don’t think I need to show anyone the idol”-Ozzy
And yet he tells all these people

Ooooh. Switching tribes, huh?
Just after Ozzy told everyone, lol

James as first choice, makes sense
Joel for other first choice, also makes sense

Man, the rain just comes and goes here
Oz and Amanda sticking together

“I’ll take Poverty” - Jason
“It took me a while too” - Jeff

Joel acting so upset to have Chet even though he just proved he will work with him. 
Maybe not a strong choice, but a potential ally choice 

So we saw that Penner sees medical in the ‘next time’ 
The question is: how does it happen?

One minute is such a long time to run for flag football
Joel just dragging Chet along

They just showed Amanda from behind without blurring. So whatever happened last time either isn’t a problem or hasn’t happened yet

Ooo. Penner running around tells me he hurts himself here 
Ooo, yup! That’s it for Penner. Sorry bud

Oooo Chet! That was rough. This is not a good game
So many injuries!

“I hit my head” - Chet
“I don’t care” - Joel
“I know” - Chet
Yeesh Joel

Maybe Penner will get to enjoy some food before he goes home. 

Ozzy is SO lucky that he got to go back to his camp where he hid his idol

Wow. This camp is awful. Tide just comes right up on the fire

“These people should be dead” - James, lol

Ooof Penner. Please just get out of here already so that we can stop seeing the very deep wound. Woof!

Wow. He is staying in for now, huh? 

“There may be an infection”
Well, I have bad news.

Jesus Ozzy. Down there for so long 

The favorites coming in and just working their butts off to get the camp to a liveable state

Is that Amanda with a shark? Yes. Yes it is.

Penner limping into the immunity puzzle
Is he going to be the caller? Can’t do much else.

Dang. He is a thrower/puller. Good spirit Penner

James breaks two half way! Just harder targets now
Penner hits the smaller target and nothing! Oh he got the other!
Those were not easy

Airai catching up! They got it! At least when Penner goes they won’t be down so far

Here goes Joel blaming Chet for another loss. Not even physical this time 

Cirie is playing so strong! She is able to see the bigger picture so well now

Do you think the Fans practiced signing names fancy? Someone did stylized bubble-type letters

Lol, they called him “Truck”
See ya Firetruck

Chet sticking in this

Ep. 6
Surely Penner has to go home this time

Ooh. Building a blockade 
Get through the tunnel, huh? Penner is going to have a rough go

Penner volunteering to stay in! Good on him. A terrible idea, but good on him
No way Penner makes it through this tunnel 
Penner made it! A strong way to go out, my guy

Ooo, Chet to go to Exile Island. He’s dead

Here goes Penner. Don’t worry bud, you’ll get another chance to lose later
Man, he’s really taking it hard. 

Wow, it really is James and a bunch of girls. 
Parvati flirting with the reward helpers, lol

Jeez. Tons of injuries. Chet down too

This has been a very interactive Exile Island this season
Does Jason fall for the hidden idol?
Is he going to fall for it?
Oh my god. Ozzy you did it!

Oooh. I think this is the one where James just picks up the pole and carries the person rather than using the poles as stepping stones
Yeeee! They’re just carrying it across! I remembered this one!
“Not the was this challenge was designed - or the way we thought it would go” - Jeff

Purple team still has a chance, but not really 
Oooh, it’s the balance tower thing
James is just the anchor 
Lucky he is with all the skinny women and Jason

Jason and Erik: look nothing alike. 
My mind: These are the same person

Are they going to actually get rid of Chet this time? He’s been hanging on for dear life for so long

If you vote Ozzy and he uses the idol, Chet leaves and he gets what he wants. If Ozzy doesn’t use the idol he’s gone anyway.

I’m glad Chet smiled at Ozzy’s Chettington IV vote

Wow. Didn’t even get to a vote that wasn’t for Chet. Ozzy doesn’t even know they were coming for him. No one even voted for Ozz. I guess Chet must have told them beforehand that he was out.

Ep. 7
The chickens don’t have their chicken dad anymore

Lol, Kathy doing the I Dream of Jeannie head nod to try and teleport herself home

Ozzy trying to teach Erik. Cirie had it right with the lion teaching the cub

There is someone named Natalie in this game? She sure hasn’t made an impact on this game 

This thing is a money stone? Good work on guiding Cirie 

James has become a puzzle master this season

No spa trip for you this time, James

Oof. I thought someone from the winning team might have to go and skip reward. That sucks

Ozzy and Amanda in the shower together 

Cirie just watching all the young kids get naked with Oz, lol

They’re living with bats in their cave

Poor Kathy is breaking down
Good guy James comforting her. 

All the girls just watching Kathy cry in a circle 

Poor Kathy just couldn’t take it. At least she got to go and get the experience. 

This season is especially rough. Physically, emotionally. They’re just dropping like flies

Oo, Amanda losing faith in Ozzy? 

Other team is like “Wait, Kathy’s gone?”
At least the tribes are even. No one sitting out, but the challenge can still function as intended 

Oh interesting. Riding the puzzle pieces back to camp
Ozzy up first because of course he is
Evenly matched… Until she didn’t help the puzzle piece off the mat 
Ozzy out again, huh?
It looks like he’s riding a jetski 
Ozz out again after Erik
Oh my god. Again Oz?
He is really feeling it now
James is just solo-pulling it in, lol
I feel like my Tetris time would help me with this challenge. Not after so many days on the island, but more than nothing, lol

Dang, Arai looking like they might have this
Wow! Coming back from a big negative 

Amanda and Cirie saw Ozzy wanting to keep Erik coming

“Tonight’s vote is very important” is said almost every single time and I feel like the only time it isn’t true is when someone asks to go

How many men are left in this game? 4? Ozzy, Erik, Jason, James?
I wasn’t really paying attention to how many started

Is Ozzy going home with an idol today?
I could definitely see him out here.
Welp. There goes Tracy.

Not what I expected 
Wait, why did Cirie vote Tracy? Did she not want to go against the group?

Ep. 8
Erik’s only hope is a merge 

“I don’t think I’m the leader. I just think I have a lot of good opinions…” -Ozzy
Well, Ozzy. Listen to yourself for just like, a second

Why is everything in black and white? What is going on? They just stabbed a crab to death
Why was that in black and white? Lol

Telling Ozzy that he was on the chopping block but only after the vote happened does not seem like a great play. Unless you’re just trying to make him paranoid 

They going to eat a rat? That seems …not great. I guess it’s not like a city rat with all sorts of trash grossness

No one has eaten a rat since season 1, huh?

Parvati planning around getting rid of the big guys. If she keeps plotting like this and those people are on the jury, then that’s actually a game plan you can call back to

Someone going to exile and getting individual immunity?

Does Jeff have a change of clothes so he doesn’t look drenched from all the rain before the challenges or is there just an umbrella we can’t see?

Ooo. Ozzy can’t be voted out even if that team loses. I bet he’s happy about that.

Backtalk to Jeff, lol.
“How about what we’re playing for?”
“How about you give me immunity back?”

Pizza to their camp. Literally Parvati’s dream from this episode

That’s a good tumble for both those boys
Nice save Erik! Swinging from those ropes
No one can seem to hit the balancers 
Come on Amanda! You got this!
Finally someone fell mid course
Good job Amanda! 
This challenge doesn’t seem very tested for all the bag throwers. They don’t really seem to be doing much
Erik had a real hard hit there

At least Parvati gets her literal dream of pizza
Hopefully it doesn’t rain on their pizza

Ozzy is safe, so Erik is almost certainly on his way out

“Pizza delivery boat” what a combination

James just opened a beer with his mouth…

Ozzy playing dumb with the idol. Ozzy really trying to get her to look under that rock
Aaaay, he found out that his fake is gone

Erik playing his last card. Good on you, Erik. Get as much distrust as you can

Ami, you are just talking yourself into getting voted off. 
Cirie does not look happy about that group hug

“I owe you a thank you’ she says, walking toward Erik with a machete

Why is Ami crying? Ooh. She is feeling teamed up on. I see
Is Ami playing this up or is it just that she is so worn down after all the time out there? 

Someone took their time writing down Ami’s name (probably Erik, I think he did the special letters last time)

Ami!? They voted out Ami?

I guess she was too shifty before and they didn’t trust that. 
“... that Ozzy and Amanda didn’t trust me”
Well Cirie voted for you too

Ep. 9 
Erik looks so out of it. He’s just like “what is going on? How am I here?”


Tomorrow very well may be the merge, Erik

“I’d rather be in the final three with you and Ami”-Eliza
Well, I have some bad news  for you

Jason telling Eliza he has the hidden immunity idol, lol. 
He really believes it

Oh, new camp for merge? Gotta get all the good stuff from the good camp. Or I guess it could be going to the bad camp

Oh, nope. New camp

Whats her face doing a sand face mask in the ocean while strategizing, lol

She really hasn’t gotten much screen time for me to not know her name this far in
Alexis!

That’s a lot of flies on that food waiting for them

Lol, Eliza finding that Ami is gone

Ooh, they get to choose which camp they will live on

Are those boiled bats?
James just diving right in.
He is just tearing that apart
So many bones

Lol, Erik just making up the name for the new tribe

Ozzy and Alexis getting real close. Making Amanda suspicious 

Cirie looking very suspicious about everyone. 

“Jason is a big fan of mine, but he probably thinks he can do everything better”- Ozzy
Yes, explicitly that 

“Hopefully I won’t forget this spot either”-Jason talking about the fake idol
Famous lost words

Parvati being real with Eliza. I guess she wants to be honest for jury’s sake

I have no idea right now who is going to the end.

Jeff just nodding along to the new name. His face when Alexis said “It’s Micronesian for good”. Subtle jaw drop

Ooooh! It is a tide rising challenge. I think Jason guessed that

Fish fighting off James

“Help me…” -Cerie, lol
This challenge feels like it is real close to actual torcher 
Not quite there, but pretty close

“Weren’t paying attention?”-Jeff
“No, I just thought I had more space above me than I did”-Amanda
So yes, you weren’t paying attention

Can we induce a panic attack in our contestants? -the game
They are really pushing the limits this season
Turns out James is just dead
Wow Ozzy looks awful after that 
Now Jason gets to give away his fake immunity idol and someone else gets to check to see if they think it’s real or not

Cirie knows that Amanda is jelly of Alexis, lol

Eliza knows it’s fake!!!
She thinks Jason made it!
Oh my goodness. Not as sweet for Ozzy with them thinking it’s a fake, but still good for him that they’re going to play it 
But I think that they might waste their fake idol anyway with how the vote seems to be going

Eliza definitely thinks she’s going today
She knows that idol is a fake, lol

Do they tell them where to sit? How does the voting order go? Do they go in a line or what?

Ozzy’s face when Eliza goes up with the fake
Another fake idol into the fire. Ozzy being upset Jeff threw his fake idol into the fire, lol

Here goes Eliza
If only that idol was real
Jason’s face. “Oh no.”

Ep. 10
Jason having to own up to his plan. 
Ozzy giving credit where credit is due to my man Yau-Man (he did before too, but now in front of everyone)

“To go up against Ozzy in the first immunity challenge and win…” - Jason
Means you are the bigger threat, my dude
You are on you own and you’re a threat now

What about those symbols make them micronesian? 

Ooo, extra pieces that don’t match

Oooh man. Who gets sent to exile for no-idol time?

Cirie didn’t go to Exile Island her first time around, and now she’s gone twice

Jeff constantly talking so they can’t concentrate 
Erik (or was it Jason?) took more time, but Ozzy catching up and overtaking the other team
Was there a limit on the number of symbols you can input or just as many as you remember?

Erik you little kid, lol
“That’s the most boobs I’ve probably seen in my whole life”

Oh Erik. Someone has to vomit after a reward challenge each season, lol

Is this the first time someone has been on Exile Island alone this season? Poor Cirie. She’s tough enough to get through it though

James, are you intentionally making all that noise?

Ope, people coming back and bragging about the reward challenge. Always a crowd pleaser 

This challenge. So strange. Holding your hand above your head

Cirie and Erik opting out to split the bowl! Lol
“What the Nickelodeon is going on around here!?”-James
So many things happened in quick succession that I had to pause just so I didn’t miss anything

Oooh, poor Alexis was too trigger happy. 

“That would suck - oh-!”James
Lol

This challenge is so good
Ozzy at risk and he’s like ‘nah, I’ll take donuts even though I just went to a reward challenge’

5 hours!?

“I have to go to the bathroom”-Amanda, lol
She raised her hand like she was in class

6 hours!? Parvati good on you!

Oh my god. Jeff is like “we need to end this”
Cirie did you just cross your fingers!?
So many people crossing their fingers like it matter any more than just lying! Lol
This has been a great challenge to watch

“I think that one of the dumbest, most naive moves in Survivor history just got played”-Ozzy
Yeah, I think you’re right.

You know what a guarantee to not get voted out is, Jason? Having Parvati drop her hand, get everyone else the reward, and you getting the necklace 

Ozzy’s outwit game in strategy hasn’t been too strong, but that idol though. Actually getting it played

Is it 4-5 guys-girls right now?

Smart move Ozzy. Definitely bring that idol. Don’t be James last season.
James, you tell him to play that idol now. You know what’s at stake 

I think you should play it Oz. Don’t go home with it

Welp. Here we go

Erik’s votes are always the best, a different font each time

Ooooo. Jason is out of here. Right?
4 to 4!?
Eliza’s face on the jury!

I knew it was going to be Ozzy! You should have played the idol my dude!

Ep. 11
Amanda is rightfully upset

James did you get hurt too? Are you going to lose your finger?

Parvati straight up telling James she’s taking the girls to 3
Talking about the apple again
“And you were a definite apple chewer” lol

Just noticed they have Amanda labeled as “Aspiring Designer”
Does that mean unemployed?

Just noticed there wasn’t a clip show-
AUCTION (it look me three times to type that)

Does cookies happen here? Sharing with everyone 
Cirie trying to short change Jeff!

Smart swap, Erik
Get a fat dip uh that guac Erik

James getting that free bat 

Oh my god that PB&J going like hot cakes
Jeff is so surprised!

A money steal! Ooo. Idol rehidden!
Jason back to the island!
“This time maybe you’ll get a real one” Brutal, Jeff

Oh it’s the cake!
“Don’t hog the cake! I’m a little aggro right now!” great
Aaaand eat
Going to make yourself sick with that much sugar
Erik going for the fingers. I remember this!
No advantages this time. Just sending someone to the island

Jason is going to find that idol. I really wish they hadn’t thrown Ozzy’s idol in the fire so they could hide that as the real one this time
There it is. Boy’s quick

Are they building more cart puzzles?

Happy birthday Erik

Aww, they’re sparing Erik on his birthday, lol

Wow, Jason’s whisper could not be heard at all. Maybe he wasn’t mic-ed coming back from Exile? Are they usually mic-ed? I’ve seen mic packs before

I would say “Go Amanda!”, but she is safe without immunity anyway (probably)

Erik doesn’t need it, James very much does
Slow and steady, Erik
OOO James. Such a good jump!
Very close!
Now that’s a birthday present!

Erik sounds so low energy all the time

They are so happy James didn’t win

They’re checking for Jason’s immunity idol

Jason being heartfelt and she’s just playing him so hard. 
Her name is Natelie? I think that’s the second time I’ve heard her name

“I’m getting to be more myself”- Nat
Well that’s concerning, lol

Oh hey, James got his finger looked at it looks like. Big ol’ bandage

Ozzy giving that death glare from the jury

You going home with that idol too, Jason? Looks like it!
James’ reaction, lol
He’s watching person after person make the same mistake he did

To be read with this inflection (following the link gets to the correct timestamp, playing it in docs seems to start from the beginning):
https://youtu.be/BeBEpW_P69E?t=15
[Two idol holders in a row? TWO IDOL HOLDERS IN A ROW!?]

Ozzy looking a little smug from the jury there. ‘I’m not the only one now’

Another new hidden idol

Ep. 12
Let’s see that finger James
Oh that is a larger bandage in the interview thing

That knuckle does not look great

Whew. That split does not look great.
Have I told you about the Thailand Sword Crew (TSC) in 3rd grade? I imagine I have

How many people have just quit because of physical/emotional injury/been evacced? 
Jonny just got done and quit. Penner’s leg. Chet asked to go out for a couple reasons. Kathy quit for emotional reasons. James went out for his finger

“It’s bad because I’m a nurse, but that’s two less people I have to fight against for a million dollars”
Brutal, Cirie

The little facsimiles of the players, lol

The secret name challenge always seems to stir things up

I wonder if it’s the same family members for the return players

“That’s Jeff Probst! He’s just standing there!” Erik to his brother
“Erik you’re a freak” -Jeff
Lol

It is for Amanda
Aaay, James’ dad

Aaaaay HB back at it again!

Another new idol! So many

Obviously Erik 
Oh no James! Makes sense for Parvati, she already told him she’s out for him

Parvati’s mom “I knew it” for who never shuts up, lol

Everyone evenly matched 
That idol smash! 

James’ dad “What’s up with that” about the least likely to invite to dinner one

Amanda’s reaction to the idol smashing, lol
Alexis has to choose Cirie. She won it for her

HB gets to experience it again!

No hug goodbye for Amanda. Off to exile island

James’ dad doesn’t even get to be there with him for his finger

That finger is awful! 

Wow Parvati really tearing up

Erik is the last man standing, lol

Wow. Those are some awesome jellyfish 

Oh my god, the 2nd clue is literally below her. 
They really want people to find this idol this time, not as much back and forth 

Amanda is doing work for this idol. Get it!

Idol is beneath the flag back at camp! 

That is a different loop shirt. Same strange loops, different color

That is a very large gun.
Sake bottles? This feels like they had something different planned and had to change things up
Nice shot Nat
Real high shot there, Cirie
Nice Erik! Sticking in this. 2nd shot!
You need this shot, Erik. 
Nice job Erik! Immunity for Erik!

It’d be interesting for Erik to stick in this. He hasn’t really been in a place to outwit. He hasn’t been in a position of power to be a leader. He’s had to follow everyone else's plans

Good play, Amanda. Hrmm… Telling Parvati. Maybe not a good play

Girl get that idol. You ‘have’ it. Don’t let this be a continued curse

They even put a shovel by the flag
Amanda, don’t bother looking around. You dig. You get that idol. Doesn’t matter if they see you. Either they vote for you if you still have it or not. 

Oh my god James with an IV on the jury
Ozzy’s fist bump for Amanda getting to search for the idol, lol

They’re seating them in fans v faves order

They have to keep some tension about this vote by not showing if she found the idol or not.

Yes Amanda! YES YES YES

BREAK! THAT! CURSE!

Ep. 13
PicturE
PicturE
PicturE

Are they going to rehide the idol?

Were they able to stick to 14 episodes because so many people dropped out?
Stick to 14 without doing any tricks that is

We doing trivia?
We doing trivia

“Meal” - Erik doing a little kneel-dance

They put the idol back in!? That is so many!

Richard Hatch, I know his name

Could have told you who fell in the fire, but not where

Makes sense that the fan gets the reward

Erik goes against Nat’s wishes and send Parvati away

Cirie enjoying Nat’s squirming 

Boy, get back in that helicopter. You are waving too far out

Their feet are not in a good way

“I work at an ice cream parlour” -Erik
Well, you better start making choices. That’s how you get the votes, ice cream boy

Parvati, are you not looking for the idol?
Ooh, I see. Not letting the others get the idol

“I won that same challenge in my season” -Cirie
She knows what’s up

Nat just wanders into this conversation. Not even hidden

“Uuuh. I might have screwed up quite a bit”
You think, Erik? You think?

Aah, rope crossing coordinate puzzle 

Work for it Erik! You need this for sure!
Amanda also needs it and I am rooting for her much more, but I am doubtful
Parvati finally found a bag
Daaang Erik!

Guaranteed final 4! Great puzzle answer, lol

I have a feeling Amanda is on her way out tonight.

Give the necklace up… You said “you’d think”
Is … is he going to do this?

Oh my god. They’re all sitting there talking to one another. 
He saw them all talking 


He’s considering it.

To his credit (or lack thereof), I don’t think he would win anyway. Might as well do something iconic on this fans vs faves season.

James off the IV at least

Erik looking at the jury and being like ‘yeah, I done goofed with all those alliances’

Play him Amanda! Play him like a fiddle! 


He’s talking about redemption


He did it!

Parvati kissing Nat and James just like “yes yes yes yes yes” fist pump fist pump

They just show every. single. vote. this time as they’re being cast. No tension. 
They are straight up about it.
Everyone’s smiles 

HIS FACE!? You’re surprised my guy!? Really?!

“I’ve lost my reign as dumbest survivor ever” -James
Redemption for someone tonight at least

“Surviving four crazy sexy women” 
Oh Erik, lol

Ep. 14
Their little dance back at camp

Jeff knows they're proud of themselves, lol

I can't tell if they only have a few challenges or if they're bringing some back because they're bringing players back 
Every time someone jumps off that balance pole with the water bucket I'm always worried about then not jumping far enough out 

Come on Amanda! Oh she was so far ahead

Oh yeah! Amanda was in the finals last time too. She definitely played a much stronger game this time

You think that Parvati would go out on a limb for you, Nat? How could you trust her at all now?

Nat has really turned a corner for sure. From me not know who she was 10 episodes in to being in the final four

You should be nervous, Cirie. You’re with a bunch of tricksters, lol

Wait, Jeff. Are you going to go to a final 2 or are you just stirring the pot?
Jeff.

What if Parvati went home now? What if they just totally flipped the script?
That feels like a good move for Cirie and Nat

Best Nat can hope for now is a tie
Aaaay, Cirie! Keeping in there

I bet Erik feels some vindication right there, seeing Natalie get voted out

I think it was smart to get rid of the final fan. Don’t want any favoritism from the fans on the jury. 

Amanda blowing up at Cirie 

“I feel like I’ve been doing this forever” -Amanda
Yeah Amanda. Straight from China to this business
How did that work? Does she know she’s lost China already?

Oh my god a final two? Are you forreal? 
Really!? 
A remembrance and an immunity 
Wow

Cirie, you better win this one. You know what’s coming if Amanda wins

The only one who is even a little safe is Parvati 

Two tribes and all of one is gone. This remembrance will be a lot of “we didn’t really know you”

“I’d rather whip out 8 more kids in 10 minutes than do this again”-Kathy
That is a statement

“My relationship with Amanda is worth any amount of money”-Ozzy
Is this going to be a real thing?

“It’s opened my eyes about they way that women are and the way they operate”-Erik
I don’t think that’s quite the lesson to learn, bud

Oh it’s the cylinder challenge! Does Cirie do the thing where she swaps the way she is holding it between rounds? I remember that being a thing, but I don’t remember who did it or when

There is so much riding on this challenge for them. The pressure

Parvati’s ball just completely flung off there when she put it down. You could see it was wobbling towards the end
Parv is done. I feel like she’s the safest anyway
Amanda is switching up the hold! She is the one!
They are sweating bullets
Just an endurance challenge now. Woof
AMANDA!

I saw Jeff with his hands outstretched and I thought for a second he was going in to join the group hug, lol (was reaching for the idol necklace off screen)

Gloria the chicken hanging around still
Is that an invasive species? 

Amanda is so tired. She can’t think anymore. This is a toss up decision anyway, but it’s rough

Are they not buying the emotion? Do they think it’s an act or are they just fed up? (they=jury)

Amanda, never play this game again. You are good at it, but it seems to be destroying you. At least don’t do two in a row again

Stuck with the initial decision of Parvati. Probably a good move? Hard to say

They are so (rightfully) happy about that food at Tree-Mail

2 and a half months of the last 6 months in the wilds. Rough on Amanda

Lol, they’re just burning the shelter
Not as much burning all the old belongings 

“One person is going to walk away with nothing”
Well, you still get whatever 2nd place money. Not nothing from what I’ve seen

Let’s see if Amanda can deliver a better argument than last time. Not super strong

Amanda being roasted by Eliza. Woof. Parvati too, but towards Amanda was rough

I feel like it might be in Amanda’s favor to say that she’s been out in the wilds for so long

What is this question? What about being a flirt? What? 
Nat. What? What are these questions?

Erik really is a little kid 

They saving Oz for last?

Go OFF Ozzy! 
James’ reaction to Ozzy, lol
Ozzy being heartfelt in here?
“An… interesting tribal council”

Aaay, Erik. You voted for Amanda after all
They are really making it seem like Eliza took her time up there

How far would Jeff Probst make it in Survivor? Maybe not now, but like when this was filmed age. Surely he’s asked that question all the time

“[T]his is the best season we’ve ever had”-Jeff
Well, it certainly has the most notes I’ve taken and I haven’t even written the outline yet

I hope Amanda wins this, but idk
It’s neck and neck!

Aww, oh well. Good on Parv.

That might be the closest vote I’ve seen, but I’m not positive. One off from a tie
Reunion:
Record number of days on the game in only 2 seasons. Nice Amanda

Man, I hadn’t even considered that Amanda not seeing the votes before going into Micronesia meant that she didn’t really get confirmation of what worked for her and what didn’t. She had experience, but the big picture she was blind to. She had feelings, but no guarantees/confirmations

“Did you know it was going to work?” looks at Erik 
All 5 girls around Erik start petting him, lol

“Some nasty responses on MySpace”-Nat
We are really in the time aren’t we? This was late 2000s, wasn’t it? Was MySpace still big then?

Going over the fake idol again, lol

“James, you’re just delighted to have someone in your club”-Jeff

Time for Erik to get roasted
His last name is Reichenbach? 
Good on Erik for getting applause for his ‘I can’t treat people the way you need to to win’

“Thank you - you boy” -James to Erik about the dumbest move

Another love affair, you say?

“My mom loved your abs”
What a thing to say at someone’s funeral, lol

Kathy getting a shout out for sticking in there so long 

Mary and who? Ryan from Pearl Islands, huh? I kind of remember him

Cirie better be in this top 3. Well, that’s a fine three I guess.

James again!? James just rolling in it. Just play 10 more times and you will have won anyway, James

Jonny’s married to a model, huh?

“Our favorite survivor couple, Chet and Joel.” lol

Rough Mikey
At least she didn’t pass while he was on the island 

“Earth’s last Eden” you say, Jeff? Sounds like a great place for James to take his 3rd consecutive run.

H-DEEEEEEeee!!! Bae-BEEEEeee!!!








