Thoughts:
PicturE

I could not tell who was going to win this one and given who won this one, I am not surprised by that. Man were those final jury pushes a whole lotta nothing. It felt like the whole jury was against them and they just didn’t know what to say to make it better. 

I enjoyed the season, but exile island felt like it could have actually done more. They said they’re bringing it back for season 13, so we’ll see what happens there. After Terry found the idol, it was just a punishment. On top of that, it was a punishment that we didn’t get to see. So if you liked someone as a personality on the show, you just got less of them. And given that it was the interesting people/people who were good at challenges most of the time, that doesn’t seem like a great production choice. 

My initial thought was that there weren’t many big personalities on the show (not as easily identifiable as were in 8 with their ‘uniforms’), but that definitely changed. Shane (of course) and Cirie both delivered on being interesting, memorable people.Terry and Aras kind of got there in the end, but only because they were always mad at each other, which is like ‘eh’. Terry definitely did more by being the underdog winning all the challenges at least. 

In a surprising turn of events, I don’t have a strong “In conclusion” candidate for this season. Danielle was sort of bland at the end, but didn’t seem malicious. Shane was a bit out of it for sure; but he seemed to pull it together, especially at the reunion. Good on the contestants for not being easy to drag. 

So I suppose -

In conclusion:

There were many thoughts in this woman’s head about her limits, 
and they were proven wrong.


Ep. 1
We still in that box screen times. 
Still in Panama. Was that the only place? Is that the only place and the ones I’ve seen were outliers?

Four tribes!?

“I can’t help but flirt with all the women I come into contact with” 
Whew

All the older guys greeting each other by shaking hands. Let’s go dads!

Oh we got hidden immunity idols this time.

Oof. All alone on day one before you’ve learned anything about being out here alone. That is rough stuff

Lol, no tribe names. Just ‘Older Women’. Aah, now I see. Tribe names on the flag, just not under names

Man Tina’s got some hair

Oh jeez. The younger guys might be able to do challenges, but they don’t know what they’re doing at all. 

Four tribes seems like a lot to keep track of. We’ll see

Wow. The younger women are not doing great so far. 

Old guys rocking it. 

We got an astronaut here!?

Initial Guess at people who will stick in the game (made once I know names enough to write them down):
Bruce (I’m not sure if he will stay, but so far I want him to). Tina the lumber worker(?) [I was very wrong about this one]

This one doesn’t have as initially strong of personalities. I imagine that has something to do with that people weren’t forced to come out here in suits and uniforms. 

None of the younger women or men have really stood out to me so far

Nevermind. Misty just ate a worm. Good on her. 

“Older women have it going on” - Jeff

Welp, that guess didn’t last long. See ya Tina. I thought that her being outdoorsy would help her, but I guess not

Ep. 2
Dang. Lightning so bad it scared the camera man

That lasted one day!? Two tribes already

Yeeeeah immunity for my man Bruce

New final guesses:
Bruce, Astronaut guy, maybe Misty? I am doubtful on all of these

Shane going off before the challenge, lol

“Only because Casaya is absolutely inept” 
Get ‘em, Jeff

Shane going off after the challenge too
Shane pulling an Osten here?
Apparently not

Melinda’s gone, makes enough sense on their part

(I don’t remember if this was from 2 or 3, but them losing the spear before they even got to use it was something else)
Ep. 3
Bruce is back!
Well, he was back. Back to the island for him

This challenge is quite physical. People all up in each other’s business. 

Welp, there goes Misty. Tina and Misty gone, two initial guesses out. 

Ep. 4
They cannot catch a break with this fire

Good on Terry for finding the idol. Not sure how I feel about the shrunken heads. 

[This is where I switched to watching on my TV before the Paramount+ app just decided to not]
Ep. 9
I fully expected Aras out of there. I was shocked when Austin's name came up

Ep. 11
Poor Bruce 

Ep. 12
New car looking slightly less awful. Looking more like an actually new car

Shane continues to get more and unhinged 

Yes Cirie! Get that fish

Daaang Terry

Unsure of episode:
Bobby getting on everyone's nerves with the wine

Ep. 13
Shane already crying for everyone else's loved ones 

Ooooh. Rough Jeff. Cruel reward challenge 

Jesus, Terry. Not giving up 

I'm not sure if I saw Shane making it this far or not. He's a big personality, which seems to make it from what I've seen. The smoking part had me doubtful though 

I did not see Terry making it this far at all

Shane's face when he got his first vote

Oh no Shane! Poor guy had no idea


Ep. 14
Terry coming back angry from tribal council to start out
He’s so grumpy 

Counting while also having to navigate the rope seems real rough

Getting physical on the ropes there, boys

Oh my god they are so mad at each other

Oh we doing coordinate x marks the spot again
Whew. Close one for Aras

Terry nearly had a full streak on immunity.  Tough break

Oh dang. They do have one from each group in the final four

I have no idea where this vote will go.

Is this going to be the first tie I’ve seen? [edit: there may have been another, because I think I remember a revote at one point. Definitely the first fire making/non-revote]
Yuuup

Danielle! Oh no. The idol stuck with Terry (the obvious right choice for him)

First fire making contest-
To be continued!?
I guess that makes sense

Ep. 15
Oooh that was a close one on the fire making.

WOW Terry! So close!
The remembrance part is always weird to me. I think its neat they do it, but it always feels like they’re dead. I guess the “fire is your life” kind of makes sense why they would want it to feel that way, but it’s strange to overlay the dramatic music with their testimonials.

What a boring job for Jeff when it’s just a waiting game. 
I appreciate that everyone in the balance challenge just gave thumbs up. No talking at all

“I’m not going to take someone because I made a promise to them. I’m going to take someone who I think I can beat” - Danielle 
Smart

“I’m so indecisive as it is because I’m a gemini”
Well

See ya Terry. Wasn’t sure who she was going to choose there

Episode 15?! That’s when you fall down Aras?

No way Danielle wins this. 

Her answer to Bruce’s question. Shane’s reaction is right. “I want to give speeches to younger children with my million dollars”

Drag them, Shane. Make your own game!

These final arguments are awful. How did these people make it here?


