Alright, so below the line is just my stream of consciousness thoughts about the show as it went. I’ll try to be a bit more concise up here.

Thoughts:
PicturE

So the bones are the same, but there are some differences I caught. I’m not sure if hidden idols or advantages were a thing yet or if they just weren’t in this season. No one was looking for them, so I assume they just didn’t exist yet. Also, I refuse to look anything up because I might see winners for the seasons I have coming up next and I’m treating this like a time machine. 

I was going to say ‘no auction yet’, but really they started out with what is almost an auction. Scrambling with what money they had to get stuff. I think it was Morgan who didn’t have anyone who spoke the language. We have watched that part before, but it was still painful to watch them just sort of shout and whine at the locals again. 

I don’t know if it is just the personality of the men who make it far in the game or who they choose to share the testimonials from; but man we got a lot of misogyny out here. Don’t we, gang? 

I thought that reusing the challenges was a neat idea. Taking bits and pieces and combining them. I’m not sure if that was lazy or smart. In the seasons I have watched before this, I didn’t specifically notice that much being reused. I’m not sure if that’s because they had more ideas and/or more budget or what. 

The reunion seemed a bit different as well. Jeff was guiding it along well, but it definitely felt rougher than later seasons. There were more jumps and some questions were a bit awkward. Jeff asking straight up about relationships (not friendships) was kind of like ‘hrmmm’ weird to me. I guess that could also just be a consequence of the early 2000s. 

Players
There were a bunch of players who went far who I knew next to nothing about. I felt that same way about No-Thoughts-Carter too though. I didn’t know Darrah’s name until she won like 15 challenges in a row. 

Whenever Rupert wasn’t being super upset about people trying to vote him off, I liked him. He was out there playing hard. Getting fish, taking charge. He did seem a bit on edge the whole time though. Not that I can blame anyone for being on edge out there. 

Lill had her ups and downs for sure. I wasn’t sure what she was trying to do at times. She said in the reunion show that she didn’t know much about the game when she came in and I can believe that. Also people kept giving her crap about wearing the uniform. What do you expect? You were thinking you were going to a photo shoot and then told to jump into the ocean. That wasn’t a choice. 

The jock guys whose names I can’t remember (one was Burton) weren’t great. Picking on Rupert and then getting so upset they almost fought Jon (that might have been Burton). Jon knew exactly what he was doing there though. I’m sure. Trying to get them to fight him so he’d be in a better spot. 

Sandra was great. Just went with the flow and won for it. Didn’t buy into Jon’s nonsense. Fantastic. 

In conclusion:
This man has many thoughts in his head.
They are all bad.


—----

Ep. 1
PicturE


Initial guess for final people:
Lil, Rupert, Sandra, Jonny No Chill Fair Play
Lil?
Lil!

Jeff is so yooooung. It’s like the episodes I have seen are from 10 and 20 years in the future.



This is what Survivor was in my mind

This was the worst challenge 
Too much vomit in this episode 

This is why I would have said Survivor isn’t for me. If this was the first episode I saw I would be like “nah, I’m good.”

Ep. 7
They came back!?
PicturE



Lil and Ryan reunited. She looked so happy when they won that first challenge 

Two tribals in one episode. Wild

Wow. No exit interview for Osten. Jeff seemed pretty upset with him

Ep. 8
And now we’re starting with a council! Wild

Jon looking less and less confident after it went from 5-1 to 5-2, etc. Delightful

Ep 9.
Poor Rupert getting plotted against at the breakfast he gave them

Ep 10.
Rubert looking more and more like he’s going insane. 

That pirate ship challenge looks intense

This game is going to break Lil

Lil just lied to Rupert. Now I think Rupert might break Lil

Ep. 11
Johnny is a real piece of work
“[C]ould go down as the dirtiest things to be done in the game” 
Yeah maybe

It makes it so much worse that he didn’t actually win any big reward. He essentially just deprived other players of seeing their loved ones. No special food or event. Just hanging with his buddy. He gets pity for the future, but the reward was nothing

Dang Jeff. Called Burton out on his spelling after handing out immunity. Brutal

Ep 12
Sandra, the least wanting to swim, getting first position is rough stuff. 
That went worse than expected

“Johnny’s a snake. He tells lies, but he also tells the truth and I know he’s telling the truth right now.” -Darrah thinking Jon is taking her to the finale 2
Sure, dear. Sure he is

Lil finally has something to wear that isn’t a scout uniform, lol.

Christa trying to hold the gun like she’s trying to carry an angry cat

I have paid zero attention to Darrah and now she’s the big deal. Winning challenges and making deals with Johnny 

No idols in this game

Man Rupert still looks furious.

Final 5 and 3 of my initial guesses are still in this. We getting there!

Ep. 13
“If they can screw her over, they can screw me over” - Lil
I see you finally understand the game, Lil

Ooo. Combining so many different challenges 

‘You will spend the night in these ruins and eat a feast’
That doesn’t seem like a super cool thing to do to the ruins of a town that was burnt down and was so devastated that it wasn’t rebuilt, Jeff

Oh poor Lil can’t figure out the challenge. Oh hey she did it!
Man that ‘brand new car’ looks old. Just the style of car makes it seem like it’s about to break, lol

I’m curious how long some of these challenges take when they don’t explicitly say like ‘2 hours’.
Seems like some of these would take forever.

Daaang Darrah wrecking shop.

Man. It is crazy that both the people who came back in are still in this. 

Is giving up immunity something that is unique to this season or is that because there aren’t any idols?

Burton getting voted out again and Rupert giving out fist bumps to all the jury, lol.

Jeez Burton. Guilt tripping Lill even after you’ve lost. 

So many things happened this episode

Ep 14
A little late in the season for the letters. So close to going home. 

Wow Jon sucks so bad.

“Nobody will have immunity if they win” got a real loud surprise laugh out of me 
Ooooo. They won

Final three are all my guesses. Let's goooooooo!!!

This is either further proof of my psychic abilities or I just subconsciously remembered you talking about this season. 

Ooo, let’s set the ship on fire ~

Dang they are really dragging Osten in this. 

“Not the final three I think anyone envisioned, Jeff” - Johnny
I did. I envisioned it. I am the one with the vision.

I held my breath for almost that whole challenge. Lil got that last immunity 

Chanting under my breath as Jeff goes to read the vote “Johnny Johnny Johnny Johnny” - Yes!

Rupert being so proud of Sandra for being in the final 2 is great. 

The last person on the jury to ask a question
Jeff (reluctantly) - “Jon.”

Reunion:
PicturE

Not big enough for a live studio audience for the end yet?
Okay, there we go

Wow, Jeff. What an awful shirt
How very 2003 of you


Is Jeff just so practiced at asking these questions because he has done this 6 times already? What did he do before this?

Yes. Boo Jon. 

That grandma is really putting in the work to look like she is not disappointed in her grandson on national television

“He’s not appealing at all” Drag him, Darrah

Well that reunion show ended abruptly. Question answer ends straight to Jeff saying ‘goodnight everybody’ with no lead up or ‘next season on…’


