Samoa
Thoughts:
PicturE
There are many thoughts here. Many many thoughts. 

Let’s just start with the big one. Mr. Russell Texas (Texas in my notes to distinguish him from evac Russell). I hated him at first. I think that after he got done actively sabotaging his tribe he got a bit more tolerable. At that point he was just lying and scheming like the rest of them. I was shocked when he emptied their water and burned Jaison’s socks. I was delighted at the end during the reunion when he almost gave Jaison some socks and then burned them. If they had seen him emptying the cantines, that seems like something that people might actually attack him for. It was still early, but maybe. Although, in reality he could have probably talked his way out of it and been fine. 

I think he changed the game. I think Coach set out to change the game, but Russell really did it. Searching for idols without hints, making alliances with every. single. person. He was out there to play and play he did. Not only did he search for idols, he found three. The man was a machine. This is the blueprint which Tony built off of. That being said, it was such sweet vindication to see him so beat up at the end over not winning. Oh, it was sweet. 

One downside of Russell playing the game so much how he wanted to play it is that the final three wasn’t really very… intense? I’m not sure what the right word is. I guess I just didn’t really care who won at that point. I was rooting for Natalie, but really just because she was the woman who survived Russell. Anyone who I had specifically been rooting for throughout the season was gone. The fact that they spent so much time on Russell meant that I didn’t really get a connection to most of the players and didn’t have a strong preference who won to begin with. 

I have said this before, but I feel like it is particularly true this season: there were so many people who I just did not know their names either until it was their episode to leave or just at all. That seems 100% the fault of Texas (I’m just going to keep calling him Texas outside of his paragraph because I knew Russell first from his return season). They definitely made an engaging narrative with Texas, but it feels like a lot of the other players suffered for it. It could also be that one tribe had so many players it was hard to focus on just one, while the other tribe kept hemorrhaging players so it was hard to learn things about them before they left. That being said, you know I like me a disaster tribe and Foa Foa was just that. (As far as non-challenge disasters, Galu wasn’t much better though). 

I think I prefer sending someone over as a spy to sending someone to Exile Island. It works in a similar way to what I enjoyed about last season’s Exile. You get to have someone go over, get a clue, and potentially develop relationships with the other tribe. They miss out on what’s going on back at their camp and creates more tension. “Are they making alliances over there?” “Are they thinking I’m making alliances over here? Will they not trust me once I’m back?” It doesn’t matter if that person is being loyal to their tribe or not because the doubt is there. It is much more interesting viewing than watching someone be miserable under some leaves or eating an apple in a hut. I think the idea could have been better if it hadn’t been as one sided, though. Galu sent people over, but I’m not sure if they ever had someone come to their camp. That meant that the Foa Foa were more solidified in their team (kind of). At the very least, they didn’t have that aspect of mistrust.

As I’m reading through my notes, I am realizing that several challenges this season were just taken from children’s games. They had Kerplunk, what was essentially a plastic fishing game (hooks to get buoys out of water), and the put-box-in-holes ‘game’. There are some challenges that I think are really interesting and inventive, then there is ‘hold a block of wood up with a rope’. I say that, but I really did like the coconut Kerplunk challenge. 

I can really see what Russell’s tribemates from his return seasons were talking about now. He was the explicit leader in this tribe and he took charge; but when you explicitly say you aren’t the leader and try to act with the same determination, it can be off putting. Overall I think he did a fine job as leader. He messed up by having Shambo be sent to the other tribe again as punishment for the chickens though. That completely turned her to the Foa Foa tribe and cost all of his tribemates the game (literally all of them). It was legitimately spooky watching Russell go down. I would have been a lot more spooked if I hadn’t already seen him return. Even knowing that, it was stressful. I liked his comment in the reunion that he had no idea how bad it was and that caused him and his wife to have a fight of “You’re dead!”, “No I’m not!” when they watched it at home.
 
Dave was great too. Despite his occasional weirdness (‘love making is my game’, lol), he seemed very level headed. If he did go off, he’d try and make amends for it - which I appreciate (especially under those living conditions). He had some great lines and some great plays. 

I almost forgot to mention Shambo! What an odd duck (or chicken). She really seemed to have a temper through a lot of this game, which -again- you can’t really blame a person for there. Jeff tried to see if Laura and her made up after the game during the reunion and the answer seemed to be a resounding ‘kinda’. After all Texas did to her, I can’t believe she still voted for him. Not just that, but that she was so against voting for the other two. Maybe they were just bad people and the edit was so focused on Texas that we just didn’t get a chance to see; but they seemed really surprised by her comments during the final tribal council. 

Ben sucks. Yasmine forgave him at the reunion. I’m not sure to what extent or why. I guess it makes sense for them to make up on air as a sort of goodwill effort. “Just because we were upset with each other doesn’t mean we can’t be better” sort of deal. 

I feel like Jeff really liked this season. He was surprised so many times. He was so excited for the next tribal every time if felt like. It also felt like he was asking very pointed questions, as in they weren’t really even veiled that it was the things they were talking about at camp. That isn’t really a problem unless you are paying attention to other people’s reactions and they emote. He seemed very invested overall this season though, very into it. Overall, I agree with Mr. Probst. This season definitely started rough, but got a lot better. I mentioned somewhere in my notes that it was just flying by. Despite not seeing as much from the other contestants, the edit was good. They presented a strong, engaging, and entertaining piece of media. 

In conclusion:
This man changed the game.
And maybe,
Just maybe,
The game changed this man.


Ep. 1
They’re back to the Pirates of the Caribbean music

Oh they on small boats

Is that Russel?
Oh no, bud

“I plan on making it as miserable as possible”
Oh no

Shambo, eh?  Sure

Asian chosen as smartest. Hmmm

Oh wow those are far out there (swimming) 

I did not know the stereotype that black people were bad swimmers until I started watching Survivor; but apparently that is very well known

Shambo nearly pulled it out for her tribe. Swimmer and strong man didn’t quite pull through though

That’s what you get for trying to swim in jeans I guess

Oh. This Russell seems like a jerk
“One of these dumb girls”
“An alliance with the dumb blonde and an alliance with the dumber longer hair blonde”

That guy tried to tackle down a tree the rest of the way and he nearly stabbed himself in the face with the machete

Rocket Scientist

Oh my god Russell. He is already a piece of work. This guy has to be the guy who comes back as a villain in 20. [I was right]

His story “which was probably very true”
0%

He is emptying the cantines!? 

No. My dude just burned a sock!

He’s a millionaire!?

This guy sucks and we’re half way through the first episode

This group is full of whiners apparently. Being rude at the first immunity challenge
That is a neat immunity idol

Purple isn’t completely drained so they’re over and through
Russell the texan doing fine because he is hydrated
Human pyramid! Nice!

Texan is soloing this challenge for yellow

Mike looks a little like a cartoon character

Texan already suuucks

“We’d still be there” -Jeff
Talking about how they weren’t doing well on the puzzle

“See, they don’t like each other” -Texas
“I can tell they” -Jeff
Marissa and leader arguing 

Russell is playing everybody and they’re all so tired they can’t do anything about it

Oh wow. Marissa and Ashley neck and neck for votes. There goes Marissa

Russell is being a jerk, but the guy sitting behind him isn’t being much better to Marissa


Ep. 2
PicturE
PicturE

The entire ‘last time’ was just about Texan

Yasmin looking ready to leave already

“What? The hood? The hood’s not the woods!” -Yasmin
Lol

Is Texas going to be honest with Jaison? Nope. Nevermind 
Wait. He’s just assuming there is an idol hidden in their camp? 
OH MY GOD! He found it
Nevermind nevermind? Is he being honest with Jaison?

“Come to the challenge painted as a Somaon warrior.”
That seems maybe not great

A twist after the challenge? Kidnap? Secret Exile Island?

Wrestling basketball
Oof that thud sound
Texas is throwing people around 
Someone lost a shoe!
Oh interesting, they just rotate
New York not looking great
This is very physical!
Actual violence 
Jeff is giving them a proper talking to! That is a first!

First time someone has been pulled from a challenge!?

Oh my goodness
Mike is out this time if they lose immunity. They just lost immunity
Mike was just standing there

Something about the leader for the hidden part?
Oh. Interesting. It is a reverse kidnap. Yasmin gets to check out the enemy tribal council

Mike already getting medical. Not as fast as Randy, but quick

What sort of medical screening -
Oh my god!
He just went straight down!

What sort of medical screening do they have players go through to come out here?

Pulled from the game on episode 2! Rough!

They still go to tribal council? Why this time and not with Joe last season? [We answered this]

They will be down 3 people already!

“The good news - you’ll never believe it - there’s fish in the ocean” 
Talking about Shambo not finding fish

Yasmine what are you doing? You’re just insulting them

Was she given the clue to the immunity idol that Texas found? Yes she was

Yasmine getting angry that he was playing the game? Yasmine, you’re in the wrong here

“Yasmine is pretty close to being a hooker” -Ben
Ben, Yasmine was wrong to get mad at you; but you suck

“She is ghetto trash. She needs to go back to eating ketchup sandwiches and drinking kool aid and whatever else she dose” -Ben
WOOOOOAH BUDDY

There he goes again.

This leader is awful. (Nick)

“We never said that we were playing by your kind of sissy rules” - Ben
He just said that to Jeff when asked if he had regrets about getting kicked off



This man is insane
I thought Coach had problems

Betsy singing the Cops theme, lol

I am so upset that Betsy will still be voted off over Ben

Awful.
They are just rewarding this scumbag’s awful behavior
Despicable 

Ep. 3
Yeah Jaison. You would have been justified to take down Ben

This yellow tribe isn’t even waiting for challenges to come around to decide to vote people out. They’re being preemptive! I don’t think that’s helping them. They can’t get a good group going because they’re always looking at who to vote off

“This might be the worst group in history and I might be the best” -Texas
You might be right about the first part

Ben saying the girls aren’t strong enough to start the fire
?I hate this maaans?

Ben’s over there destroying his tribe. Meanwhile purple’s over here doing yoga

Shambo, why are you upset they’re relaxing? Tell them you need stuff, don’t just get upset with them

“It wasn’t Russell and that’s all I’m saying” -Ben
How can that make you not suspect Russell?

They’re giving them actual bathing suits?
I don’t know that I’ve ever actually seen them get clothes

They’re having them fight again!?
Already?
I’m not entirely sure how this challenge works
This pile of boys is really violent seeming
I’m pretty sure I saw Ben strangling Russell
Everyone looks so exhausted 
Good job Purple!

Now! Send - Ben - Home! (I don’t think that is going to happen)

He chose comfort? Really? Okay, fair

Oo boy. Another spy. Shambo, eh?

I had a feeling Shambo might like it better over here.

What is 90210? Shambo keeps saying it

Jaison just wants Ben gone. Willing to fake quitting to get rid of him. I don’t blame him

They’ve already got plans for the one out after this one!
They’re just going to dismantle their whole tribe until it is Russell standing in the ashes

Shambo teaching the young bucks 
Is she going to find the place where it was hidden?

Lol, Texas worried about the ‘all girl’ alliance. He knows

They are just being super open about who they are voting for.

Ben is the woooorst

Ben is the wooooooooorst

Jeff just trying to keep going like everything’s normal

How can anyone vote Ashley after that display?
Anyone that isn’t Texas at least. He wants the chaos

Yeeeeeees! Yeeeees!

I’m surprised he went quietly 

Ep. 4
This guy just comes right up and gets the info the other guy was trying to get for himself, lol. Asks the exact same question. [I think this was John coming up and asking Shambo after Erik(?) had just done the same thing]

These people are just looking around
No Jeff

Is it just a box of chickens?
Is this a make your own challenge?
They’re running for it!

Those poor chickens! Shambo’s got ‘em by the neck

“Put the chickens back” lol
Amazing
Why isn’t Jeff here?
They didn’t need him for bocce ball?
Close game right now
Dave V. Texas
One last ball

DAVE! My lad! Got it right up on there

This guy going to find the idol on their camp? 
He found it! Essentially no clues other than it was at a camp

“I plan on using this down the road. Day 30, 36!” -Erik?
My guy, that’s not how idols work [It is apparently how it works when you have this many people]

Oh no. That clothesline sort of thing they have set up was in the ‘next time’. 
As I was about to type ‘that probably means a chicken escapes and someone gets literally clotheslined by it’ as a chicken escaped

I’m surprised Shambo was the one to let the chicken get away

That chicken is way up there

Shambo is on her way out first chance they get

Were they told to wear purple because of their tribe or are Shambo and Russell just wearing purple by coincidence?

Shambo out unless Yas can annoy everyone into getting her out instead

Oh. That is a thing you run over, not crawl under?

“You have 4 extra members”-Jeff
That is a lot of extra members

Dang. This seems difficult. Building a tower of people to get up there

That guy’s name is John?

Erik working that rope bridge. Real fast
Monica (apparently someone is named Monica) is really bad at this rope bridge
There are so many competitors that have to cross this bridge
Texas burning across that bridge
Galu is looking much better here
Very tall though. Very difficult
Why is Galu hesitating?
Oh no!
Foa Foa finally win one!

It is about time

That thematic downpour just as Galu lost

Monica did not perform today, that is for sure.
Will I have learned her name just in time for her to leave?

I had to back up the show a bit because I was confused by what Yas said about wanting to get voted off. She seemed determined, but at the same time ready to go?

Russell’s got an attitude. I can see why he took charge despite not being the ‘leader’ in his return season

Yasmine wearing heels to the tribal council ‘for Jeff’, lol

“I don’t feel like you have carried your weight around camp, despite what you say” - Monica talking about Yas
Camera: Pans down to Yas’s heels

Close vote so far
Oof. Looks like Yas is on her way out
See ya, Yas. You did technically ask for this

I feel like I’m hearing Jeff say “time for you to go” more this season. Last season it felt like they were just booking it out of there before he could get a word out

The sound balance in this season seems way off. One second I can’t hear people, the next the sound effects are blasting

Ep. 5
Hrmmmmm. Food challenge

There are people at that camp that don’t eat coconut? In this game?

Oh hey! They changed the food challenge. No longer a dangerous speed-eating contest. That is better

First toss and we’ve got Jeff’s Choice
All the flies on the food already 
Jeff enjoys Jeff’s Choice too much
It is unsurprising that Shambo has 0 issue with this
This is almost worse
Russell vs. Russell and they both got the same item
Milk and Jellyfish. Yum yum
Jeff enjoys this whole challenge too much. He’s just a little kid. He probably insists this challenge stays in
Is Monica going to let down the tribe again? What is a ‘sea noodle’?
Monica did it!
What was their expectation for this challenge now that it wasn’t a race?
Sea slug guts. Delightful.
Dave will have 0 problem with his. Oh wow. He had more of a reaction than I expected. Lol, he’s retching. I bet that was just for Ashley’s sake
Poor Ashley is having such a rough time 
I am curious what the tie breaker would have been. 
Why is he having Shambo go again? Oooh, the chicken

“There’s no hidden agenda. What you see is what you get” -Shambo talking about the Foa  Foa tribe
Well, you couldn’t be more wrong

Dave and Russell going at it
Dave just gets in there and gets it going like nothing

Shambo going to accidentally cause trouble in the tribe by having them realize the idol is already gone

Lol, some people think Ben might have left with the idol

Ooo. She’s onto Texas having the idol. (Liz)
He’s just directly threatening her to her face!

Ope, here comes the rain they wish they had the tarp rather than the comfort for

Lol, Dave pole dancing trying to get to tree mail
So much water he had to build a bridge

Wow their hands are so pruny 

Brett feeding Erik a banana because Erik’s hands are tucked in his clothes for warmth

Oh wow. It is the net full of coconuts challenge. 
Shambo’s hands are full white
Okay. It is just ropes this time, not holding onto a bar. I was thinking this would be impossible if they were holding on to a wooden bar in the rain
Wow it would be so unpleasant to do this in that rain

Man, Texas is not giving in. His net is almost full. Texas is first to go
Liz is so close! She did so well!

Another member from Foa Foa gone. Does that mean Liz after her confrontation with Texas?

Jesus their feet and hands are just so pale from being waterlogged. 

This rain just completely shut down everyone’s social game. No scrambling before council.
They’re finally dry at council

Ashley trusts Texas. What a shame
Liz saying she trusts Texas even after confronting him earlier this episode

Ashley is probably the smartest choice to go that isn’t Texas

Is the torch-snuffer usually wet? It was dripping this time

Oo, next episode is where Russell goes home

Ep. 6
‘A tinge of jealousy’ when Ashley went home. I bet

Jaison wanting the heart power from Captain Planet, lol

Very dramatic shot of Russell. I guess they’re doing some foreshadowing. 

Russell doesn’t even get to be voted out.  

Doesn’t he leave due to dehydration? In this rain?
Did his foot go through the shelter floor?

This poor guy shoved into a nook of a tree in his bathing suit and loafers to get away from the rain

“If you didn’t throw up out there at the challenge, you didn’t do your freaking job” -Texas
Ashley literally threw up and you voted her out for it

In my head “please put them into the giant ball”
One person will be strapped into the giant sphere behind you - Jeff
Yes….

Uh oh. Russells about to go down.

Both tribes going to council today, eh?
Woof
Another feast while watching council challenge
Russell had the option to stick it out and he kept in. 
When did they do that confessional with Russell about the challenge? He goes down in this one, right?
This challenge would be a combination of fun/miserable for the person in the ball
Russell is fading already
Russell is more than exhausted 
Jeff noticing that Russell is down
Woof that is rough!

Oh come on! You do not need to add on the heart beat sound over it. [They did that in the first episode of this season too]
Neither tribe gets reward? Really? 
I guess it isn’t fair to give it to Foa Foa because Russell was a dead man walking?

Uh oh. Russ is completely out. Blank stare.
Jeff giving him a pep talk at least. Poor Russell
He gets to come back, but he doesn’t stick in it nearly as long as the other two who came back

That is surprising that they are having both tribes go to council. Especially with two medical evacs

Galu gunning for Shambo? Or just Monica gunning for Shambo? 

Are they all at one council!? At the same time?
I thought it would be some in the jury, some in the seats like when they ate lamb

“It was the scariest moment I have ever had on this show.” -Jeff
Woof

John looking up as it starts to rain again at council

Ooof. Jeff’s audio is starting to get crunchy talking over that rain

First time ever to not complete a challenge

NO VOTE AT ALL!?

They came here to vote two people off and they’re getting no one!
Why did this stop them from voting someone off when the first medical evac did not?

Oh dang. They have to have a leader? Who’s it going to be?

We already on episode 7? This season has flown by

Okay, they did the confessional after he got better it seems.
Ep. 7
PicturE

5/4 gender alliance. I think you said something about the women in 19. I’m clocking every single time they bring that up

“Give it up for day 16” -Jaison


Shambo the new leader

Is this a memory game challenge? Yup
Suns finally out
Oooo. Leader can choose to keep an item but you lose the point
If there is a tarp under one of those, they will choose it immediately. Doesn’t matter which tribe

Dave getting really upset that Shambo chose Erik and had her change her mind to Brett. Strange

This memory challenge seems harder than the last one they did.
Aah, it is wrapped in a tarp. Knew they would keep it
This is an interesting challenge for strategy (you can choose things to keep) and is a good mental challenge, but it isn’t super compelling viewing
I want to know how long this challenge actually took them
Foa Foa sticking in a little. Not out yet
Good job Monica!

Oh, Interesting. Shambo with the power to send people now

Shambo sending Laura over and driving the women further out of her corner
The guys’ plan is working

Texas trying to get a cross-merge alliance going

Oh! That is a ship!
Shambo sent Laura so her men could be strong for challenges, and now they’re out here hoisting the sails of this huge ship

Liz getting fed up with the religion talk and not helping, lol

Foa Foa trying everything they can to win something (leaving necklace at camp)
New challenge. Childrens fishing game for little buoys 
Foa Foa is running away with this 
Galu coming up from behind
Dave is getting so upset with people talking 
Galu got their last ones so much faster
Jaison is so tired from pulling/pushing that boat
Oh interesting, the puzzle pieces are fish
There are gaps in the puzzle! 
Foa Foa looks like they might have this. Nevermind

Texas is so erratic when it comes to who he wants gone

Are they washing clothes with sand?

Looks like Jaison might actually be on his way out instead of Liz

8/10 challenge losses so far for Foa Foa

Jaison giving them too much of a reason to vote him out. Being too honest

Two votes Liz?
Oh dang. Liz is out. Actually didn’t expect that

I guess Texas didn’t trust her enough

Another dripping torch-snuffer

“You haven’t been great at challenges, but you’re gotten really good at blindsides” -Jeff
I guess that’s a compliment? 
Ep. 8

Down to four on a tribe. Merge time

Texas using a shoe as a pillow

Shambo and Laura butting heads

Another treasure chest with no Jeff
It’s a good thing they didn’t just start grabbing things

That’s quite the feast

Is Texas going to pull his same tricks on this tribe? Burn all their belongings 

Does this name actually mean what they say it means or is this another Erik saying “Oh yeah it means this”?

Texas trying to get Laura under his wing. She’s fighting back
She’s smart

Texas says he likes Shambo. I am worried about Shambo [I was correct to worry about Shambo for this reason]

“I trust Russell implicitly” -Shambo
Uhg

T-Ball. Interesting

Two immunities? 
Oh interesting. Men v Men, Women v Women

“No, making love’s my sport” -Dave
“You play often?” -Jeff
“No, not enough” -Dave
Oh my god, lol

Oh dang. They get one shot!?
Texas with the current high score
Something about the music tells me John is going to get this
5! Nice John!

Nice Laura! Wreck Texas’s plans!

Laura tattling on Texas’s idol

“They’re playing really Junior Varsity Survivor right now” -John
Lol

Erik going to all of Texas’s allies and telling them to vote him off? What?

Texas trusted more then Erik

“Who’s Erik?” -Shambo

All the women coming together to get rid of Erik. This is exactly what Texas was worried about

Will Erik go home with an idol today?

Erik. You are digging yourself a deeper and deeper hole. ‘Foa Foa is worthless’

No idea who is going out here.
Texas played his idol!

Erik should have used his idol
You goofed it dude. You knew this was coming and you still blew it. You were suspicious and you didn’t do it!

First jury member!

The torch snuffer wasn’t dripping wet this time. It was just that there had been so much rain

Ep. 9
PicturE

Texas is scared now. Good

The girls are sticking together!

They successfully flushed the idol and got out the other idol. Good on them
They don’t even know he had the other idol I don’t think.

Is she going to kill it? Did she actually kill it? Is this Nat? It is Nat

Will Erik’s idol reemerge? 

A digital display? (challenge clue)

Oh weird. That number seems like it is going to be difficult to read. Like a Monet painting 

Natural rock slide, neat

Why do they do challenges like this which require teams when they have an odd number of players? I feel like this has happened the last few seasons.

Okay, this is more interesting. The odd one out still gets to participate and has to make a choice

Shambo really is slowing purple down, you’re right Jeff
Does she even need to get down there? Is that part of the challenge? Do they need to be at the coconuts to start undoing knots?
I see the digital display now

Purple is way ahead! 
They’re neck and neck now
Yay Texas didn’t win reward!

Okay. Erik’s idol seems to be back in play. Will Texas find it before they even get back?

Russell does not suck at challenges, Shambo! You are clearly protecting him

Oh dang, Texas taking apart their water trying to find that idol

Also is this the first time we’ve seen water this season?

HE FOUND IT! He already found it! Oh my god, Texas
Two without a clue in a row
I wonder how many idols they make in a given season.

He said he wasn’t going to tell anyone. Is he about to tell Shambo?
Ah, okay. He knows he needs numbers

Shambo is shook

I have noticed more people in the back of confessionals this season than any other

What do we have here, challenge?
That is a nice flower Monica found
Oh, it is the grapple challenge again?
And then a children’s shape game? Odd
Can they break it like the DM on tiktok’s challenge?
Nice job Shambo
Who do I want to win this game right now? Dave? Jaison? Maybe Laura? Not Texas

Woof! Texas pulled too hard and lost his bag!
Oh, I understand this puzzle now. Neat idea
Texas is so upset that the other two aren’t doing well, lol. He did NOT want Laura to win immunity

Laura, will you be the one to take down Texas? If you are, then I’m rooting for you

“He’s good at this thing” 
Talking about Texas’s 

Monica talking about Texas potentially having the idol. Dave: Nah

“That’s not rocket science” -says the rocket scientist 

Texas finally caught up in the game. Unsure about what to do

Is his name Mick or Nick? I still don’t know this man’s name

I am quite unsure of how tonight’s vote will go

Texas going again!? He’s doing it again! 
Two in a row! Two in a row!
Did they vote for him? What’s it going to be?
They did it!
Erik fist bump from the jury


Finally a vote! Here goes Kelly!
What a play!

Shambo put on a good show for her tribemates. She looked genuinely surprised to see the idol. 

Who has played the most idols? How many? Tony found a million of them, but did he use a lot of them?

BACK IN THE GAME! This idol is just going to keep going right into Texas’s pocket

Ep. 10
Shambo and Texas in this deep. Shambo wants to find the idol and give it to Texas!?
This mans

Coach wanted to come in and change the game, but Texas here’s the one making it happen

Okay, Johnny is wearing purple too. 
Didn’t even cross my mind the other team was wearing yellow

Okay. We’ve seen this challenge before. Supported by ropes, grabbing flags. When was that?

Another picnic by a waterfall for reward
Oh, another tiny fake smartphone
Texas, you don’t want to be at the reward, you want to be at camp looking for that idol!

Why does Jeff say Dave’s full name?
Oh dang. Not only do they have to do it in order, they have to make sure they don’t knock out the others
Nat is working hard at this. She is HANGING on that thing! My god, Nat! She did great that round!
Those pictures are surprisingly high quality for that phone

Yes, Monica. Obviously it is Shambo 
Lol, they put the clue on the phone

Interesting video. I wonder whose hand that is uncovering the idol. I assume just someone in production

I would guess it’d be by the swamp

They’re chasing after Texas for the idol like they did Spencer from Cagayan
He did not. HE DID NOT!
Again!?

This challenge seems convoluted in the description
Break tiles to get spears to hit a target
That is a lot of rocks
Jaison the only one so far
Dave got a Monica tile
Laura going last
Oof!
Shambo, you’re laughing very openly about Laura not getting a shot at round two
These spears they use are so strange. They’re so floaty
Bret’s got one chance. I don’t think he’s going to pull this off
He got two on there, but not close enough

SHE’S too strong!? SHE’S too manipulative!? Look who you are aligned with, Shambo!

Wait, are they going to try and vote off John? What’s going on here? Ooh, okay. They’re trying to fool Foa Foa. That’s not going to work. They’re already being deceived better by Texas

You didn’t run this by John first!? 

I already forgot about Kelley being voted out
She did not make an impression in this game

Erik’s reactions from the jury so far, lol

“I always love it when it gets to the vote, but tonight I am especially curious how it’s going to go” -Jeff
Same

This is such a different season than how it started out. I hardly remember Ben anymore

There are still so many people in this game

Texas finally safe not to play his idol

Come on tie! Come on tie!
3v3
4v4!
5V5! Yes!

Is this the first tie I have seen where they could potentially draw rocks? Maybe the first tie I have seen like this outside of the current season.

4v3…
LAURA!!!
Ooooo

“So good” - Erik from the jury

It’s all on individual immunity now for Galu
Ep. 11
Clip show? The opening screen was a previous challenge
Yup

Ep. 12
PicturE

What would you want to have done, John? Regardless it was coming down to a tie or it was going to be Laura out

You want John gone, Monica!? The other tribe is still there! He’s wavering, but still on your alliance’s side

AUCTION!

They’ve got a shower over there
$200 initial bid for that PB&J!
Oof. That ‘spaghetti’
$300 initial bid for a covered item!
An entire chicken! All to herself too. Couldn’t share even if she wanted to
People aren’t just going all in on the advantage? Jaison going all in 
$500 for a burger! Lol
WOW that burger is huge!
He is auctioning off a clue to the idol, but Texas has already found it
I wonder if they measured the door for the shower or if it was just default size. It barely covers Nat
I think I remember this pie. Maybe not
Jaison looks so miserable in the background

Poor John looking for something that isn’t there

Why doesn’t John know about everyone scrambling? [to find the idol before]

Ope, Shambo is back with the chimkens
Aah, lunch chickens
Oof. That was a lot of chops to get through that chicken neck

This is a witch’s brew


Shambo not holding back any punches
Dave didn’t even come on very strong 

What is this shot? Everything in black and white and twitchty. Ah, Shambo is a seer

New challenge. Holding a log over a tile
I get the difficulty of this, but it is not one of their most creative challenges

I think it was smart to use the advantage at the start? You are reducing the amount of stress over a longer amount of time
Shambo first down!
Oh wow! Texas out 2nd
Will Jaison have to keep going down? Oh dang! He doesn’t
Dave knows he needs to hang on. I feel like you can’t beat Jaison at this point
Nat is really impressive! She has done a lot in challenges
Jaison looks like he might be faltering. Dave’s grip though is going
Very close! Good try Dave

It feels like there are still so many people for day 30

Okay, his name is Mick [confirmed in  e p i s o d e 12]

Johnny, do you really trust Texas?
At least he knows Texas has the idol

Texas misspoke and now Johns going to pay for it
At least Texas is really starting to show some wear and tear

Dave, are you on board for Texas’s plan?

Tony and Texas are cut from the same cloth

Smart thinking Jaison. Don’t want to have Shambo flip again
Also I’m surprised Shambo is still in this

Laura looks very different when not in castaway getup

Texas coming in and unpromptedly saying the day was strategic after Shambo just said it wasn’t

Erik’s reactions are still quite good

“If this vote goes the way I’m expecting it to go, I will be shocked” -Dave
Everyone liked that response

John about to be played here
Two votes John
3! He is so confused, lol
Shambo is confused to
John’s face! He is SHOCKED

Shambo is uuuunhappy 
The jury is so lively this season

Erik is very happy

“Based on how you’ve been playing, I can’t wait to see what happens next” -Jeff
He is loving this chaos

Wow! So many people voted John! I did not see it being so one sided

Ep. 13
Texas immediately calmed down Shambo

I think this is the first time I’ve seen a conversation about jury votes later in the game.

“He told Mick he made 2 million dollars last year” -Brett
He told anyone anything about his real life?

Did they build a bowling alley on an island?
Immunity! 
I guess they’re in the final days and they need to whittle down these numbers
Right down the middle Shambo! Very nice!
Good roll from Nat, but not strong enough
Come on Brett! Take down Texas! Nope
At least Jaison got some pins his first throw
STRIKE FOR DAVE! Very nice!
Texas out! Shambo in the finals
A gutter for Dave after that strike. Good first round at least, Dave
Jaison just needs one pin to win this! Just barely!

Is Texas missing a tooth? If he is as rich as he says it is, that is just a choice he’s making to not have a tooth. 

Monica is a law student? That is the first time I’ve read that

Dave going to stick in this a little longer? Shambo going to get out? 

Shambo is finally going to learn what kind of a person Texas is

“Great working of the jury too” -Jeff
That was a bit direct for him to say at council

“See ya later Dave” -Shambo
Yes, but possibly not in the way you’re thinking

It would be brilliant for Texas to tell Dave and his crew to vote for Shambo and then still have his people vote Dave. That way when she does end up on the jury, she is furious at all of them

FIrst vote for Shambo
Votes still coming in for Dave
So did he just decide to stick with Shambo or what?
Everyone voted Dave!?

Brett must be too nice, because we haven’t seen a total of 10 minutes of him throughout this whole season. He isn’t interesting enough to get air time

I don’t think I’ve seen this challenge before
Swim bags back to shore and then catapult them into a basket
Everyone is so tired
Nat is struggling 
All of their clothes are falling off
Nat just doesn’t have the weight to get that bag in that basket
Brett and Mick neck and neck
Nat got a bag in!
They’re running out of Galu members to vote out and Brett’s got immunity now

At least Mick sees that Texas is a snake

Monica going for the throat with Texas!

OOOOoooo Jaison in trooooubllleeee

Are they starting to turn on Texas?
He’s still going for Monica? Talk about shooting the messenger!

Just pulling out that idol right at the start of council! 

“Russell got his feathers ruffled and it was -” -Shambo
“Awsome!” - Monica
Amazing. You know you're dead already, Monica. Take his ego down as far as you can while you still have the chance

Teacher-student. Texas, Monica. lol

What an episode this has been. I guess that’s what you get for two tribal councils in one

I will SCREAM if Russell is voted out here. 
You would have been receiving a very high energy 10:30 PM phone call from me if he had been voted out there

Dave seeing Russell’s name down twice “Awesome.”

Did Jeff say two episodes left? Is this a 15 ep season?

Ep. 14
PicturE

PicturE

Is Brett spouting gospel? 
Yes he is

Did they burn the chicken cage?  lol


Shambo’s hair is wild

What is this challenge? Is this Kerplunk?  Yes it is!
Did you play this game growing up? I remember it so clearly 


This is literally just Kerplunk

Nat and Texas as leaders. 
Brett is a smart choice for Nat
This seems largely random though. It is all so intertwined up there I bet it is nearly impossible to tell
Since 1968 that hair!?
Ooof. That was faster than I expected to get any coconuts. I guess it is just impossible to not
There have to be at least 199 coconuts up there. That is so many

Hmm. All this praying about challenges
Nat only drops 1! Nice job
Texas got so many in that rope!
Wow purple is dominating this
This is the kind of game that could change in a second though
19 coconuts!? In one rope
“You’ve got two prayer warriors on your team” -Nat. What does that mean?
Wow that was so many for Jaison
FORTY-EIGHT COCONUTS!?
Wow that might be the game
Shambo guessed the exact number! She is a seer!
Texas could end this game right here. ZERO! Wow
Very close. That last one Texas pulled was the game changer

Oh dang. This is Jaison’s first reward. In episode 14!

Losing members making their own reward. Good for them

Oh dang. They got a proper bed and everything at the reward

Hah, the hidden immunity idol is just hanging out in the open now that everyone knows about it.

“I’ve been completely honest with him” -Nat talking about Texas
Well, he has been completely dishonest with you

Are they about to wrangle pigs? Oooh, it is a counting challenge. Not even tied to ropes this time
And all the stations are right next to each other? Seems easier than it has been

“Don’t move don’t move” -Jaison talking to the pigs

I don’t think Brett has this
He got it! My dude!

Shambo’s night, eh? We’ll see if Texas goes for that

Ominous shot of a knife in an open coconut back at camp

Shambo catching on. But maybe not enough, and definitely not soon enough

Are there currently 6 jury members and 6 players? With only one episode left they’ll probably have a final three. That’s 9 jurors and 3 contestants. That is tie territory. Why would they do this?

“If you have the hidden immunity idol around your neck and you want to play it, tonight is the last time you can do so” -Jeff
Keeping it for a souvenir then, Texas? 
Getting Shambo out then? She finally got played! It finally happened! 
She stuck in here a whole heck of a lot longer than I anticipated though. 

Ep. 15
Jaison having diarrhea in the final 5? Rough

Ooo. Texas coming for Nat if Brett doesn’t win?

“He’s no Mike Tyson. He’s Brett” -Texas

Obstacle course puzzle challenge
Is this where Brett goes?
Oh interesting. He fell off the balance beam but they didn’t make him go to the start of the beam
Fairly evenly matched getting to the puzzle
They are all building from the inside out, interesting choice. Makes sense because that’s where the design is, but just not a normal puzzle strat
Brett got it! 3rd in a row for Brett!
Jaison just got nothing. I don’t think he’s been great at puzzles this whole time

Wow! This is the first Foa Foa member leaving since the merge, isn’t it?

They have to vote out Texas now if they want to do it at all

Everyone still in Texas’s web. No one suspects a thing. From a moral stance, Texas doesn’t deserve to win the money at all. From a gameplay perspective, Texas deserves this win 100%

I don’t know how big of a jury threat Brett actually is. 

“How hard is it to beat Foa Foa really? We won one immunity challenge” -Texas
Jury rolling in laughter

“When tribal council started, I wasn’t even going to bother asking; but in light of your comments, is there someone you’d like to give that necklace to to switch spots?” -Jeff
Not this time, Jeff.

Did Brett not even try and persuade the other members to go for Texas? 

Jaison out of the game. Texas really aiming to get rid of Brett

Jaison rooting for Brett now, lol. Texas goofed up there (but probably not actually)

Is this the first time we’ve seen Texas and Brett talk outside of council?

Texas making allies with everyone again, lol

Remembrance time
Another mask burning

Mike reminds me specifically of Jeffrey Tambor, but specifically when he played Juliet’s stepdad Loyd 

Ben’s remembrance
“He had no idea how to play it socially. I wasn’t sad to see him go” -Mick talking about Ben, lol

“If it wasn’t for them, I would have rather died that day” -Russell
Woah buddy

Wait. Laura was a grandma? Was she actually a grandmother or is she just saying she was an older woman?

“I’ve got to be honest you guys. I think Monica was the fakest person here” -Texas
Even at the remembrance you are trying to discredit her!? Trying to make it seem like she was lying about him

I was thinking as they started this “It’s a good thing Brett is still here or else they wouldn’t know a lot about a lot of these people from the other tribe.” Then I remembered that hardly anyone from Galu went out before the merge

Final immunity challenge let’s go.
Oh interesting. It is like China’s final challenge with the bowls but with poles
They showed Mick and I was like “It is his time”
That is spooky when it falls. That could hurt
Is Brett going to pull this out too? Four in a row for the boy?
Wow they have a lot of poles there. They did not want this to go to an endurance test
Texas taking every last second on the pole
Texas’s arms looking shaky
Oh Brett is looking - never mind, he got it back
Man Texas does not want to lose this
Brett payed attention to Texas’s tower and lost his concentration
Texas finally getting the idol from a challenge

“In my opinion, I just won the game” -Texas
I think you might be right

The players must be under some pretty intense NDAs 

Texas’s promises finally coming back to bite him?

Mick is very paranoid right now, lol
With good reason I believe 

Is Texas being sincere about Brett? I can’t tell what’s going on here.

Does it benefit Texas to bring this to a tie for Brett? 
Keeping Brett could help or hurt his jury votes. Getting rid of Mick could help or hurt his jury votes

Jeff is just straight up calling out Texas’s actions of the day during this council.

We don’t normally hear Jeff call out names for who to go up to vote after the first one, do we? He just called up Texas

Aww, there goes Brett. I guess Texas decided to stay the course with the Foa Foa

“Wow. They did it” -Erik from the jury 

Was that meat that Mick just ate cooked already? It didn’t seem it…

Texas being confrontational about the hypothetical jury questions. 

Oh dang. They are burning that hut in the midst of a bunch of trees. That seems really not great

“All three of you voted for every single person on the jury” -Jeff
Wow

Texas has to come clean to some extent about his game

Jaison breaking down all these people in terms of wealth

“I would like to apologize to America for dismantling Galu” -Shambo
“There is a word that starts with a “C” that is in my mind. Can you finish it?” -Shambo to Nat
“I’m going to let you finish it” -Nat
“Coattail” -Shambo
Cut to Jeff looking suddenly relieved  

Dave’s face when Shambo was going off
Shambo is voting for Texas!? After all he did

Dave’s face this whole time 

What an interesting question. “What do you think your chances are?” -Dave

A lot of questions either for only Texas or only not for Texas
He may sweep this

Erik with the closer
Ooo, calling Mick out for being a leader with nothing to show for it
Erik playing strong for Nat
Of all these people I think I’d like if she won the most; but I’m not entirely sure about any of them

Erik guaranteeing that Texas won’t sweep this at least

I think Texas probably deserves to win, but I don’t think I’d be happy if he won.

Wow Texas looks the same on and off the island

Jeff giving them a hand for this season. I guess because of all the rain?

2 votes for Nat at least
2v2 Texas Nat
Nat won!
Texas played a good game, but he lost! Hooray! 

Is “Natalie’s Family” one person?

I would like to see a map of where Survivor winners are from

Reunion:

Does Jeff know who wins before reading the votes?

I would imagine production would know so they can put together the correct clips. 

She gave up so much to be on this game. Seems like a big gamble 

“Tell me about your relationship with Russell. How did that work?” -Jeff
Chuckling from the jury

Texas seems upset, lol
He looks like he’s been crying

“You look visibly upset right now” -Jeff
Calling it out right after I typed it

“All I want is the title of Sole Survivor” -Texas
Oh my god! Lol
“I will pay you $10,000”

That was very loud from the audience. They just won’t shut up out there

“I always thought that was BS that losers said” -Erik

Jaison wearing purple now

Texas brought socks and then burned them!

Shambo too famous now, lol

This audience is rowdy 

They don’t even show the show of hands for Brett, but I assume it was overwhelming from Jeff’s response 

Oh dang, Russell didn’t know how bad it was until he watched it

He just offered her $100k
“I would have taken that money. I’ll call you Sole Survivor” -Jeff
Lol

It really surprised them in production (looking for the idols unprompted)? I guess it just was never done

Lol, Texas has a necklace like the immunity idol

DRAG HIM JEFF! Lol. Absolutely amazing comment about Nat beating Jeff

Wow Texas was so sure he won this

I don’t know who my vote would have been for for the 100k. Probably Dave 

At least he got the 100k. He played hard for it

Mike’s beard parts are connected now too, which is good 

“Jeff, you make me sweat everytime you say my name” -Betsy
That card throw from Jeff!
Oh my god





