Tocantins
Thoughts:
I am pretty sure you said we’re in the dip of season quality right now (17, 18, 19) before it goes back up (20). I am still enjoying it, but I can definitely see some of that. You mentioned last season that some of the players are why it wasn’t viewed as being very good. I can definitely feel that with this season as well. Coach definitely got a lot of engagement in my notes, but woof. I’ve dealt with pathological liars before so that stuff can get under my skin. Also Tyson’s just absolutely despicable comments, I don’t think he gets his own paragraph. He had some good quips from time to time, but he was just unpleasant overall. 

Exile Island was largely more interesting this time than last. The real boon that last season’s Exile had was Bob making his fake. We saw some people while they were there last season, which was good; but they were largely just out of the game. Having people be there together makes things much more interesting. It makes people distrustful. It allows people to make alliances. Overall it is just more compelling, less so when it is later in the game and its only use is to remove someone from camp. It still serves a purpose at that point, but it is less interesting. Unless you get Coach out there and you get to watch him be… him. Also! I forgot about this until I went back to read my notes. They had the option to switch tribes on Exile and that just never came up. That is an interesting idea, but I guess it just never came up. They kept sending people to Exile who wanted to be there. Brendan and Taj’s secret alliance was more valuable (even though they messed it up).

There were a lot of returning challenges this season. Always fun to have some familiarity. There were also a lot of new ones though. It must be difficult to constantly create and tweak challenges to keep things fresh and interesting for the viewers - and to make sure that the players are never quite sure what they’re going to do. 

Let’s just start with Coach. This man. I was so ready for him to be gone for so long. There is a note every other episode that is like “I’m ready for Coach to be voted out now.” I did appreciate Jeff giving him a hard time throughout the season though. He has said before they like to bring someone in to stir the pot a bit; but it felt like they went too hard this season. Between Coach and Tyson it was rough sometimes. 

I was a fan of Taj. She and Brendan came up with that inter-tribe alliance that was very sneaky. Her reactions to things were great too. I’m mainly thinking of the auction. It is a shame that Stephen ended up betraying her; but I don’t think any of the people at the end would have been able to dethrone J.T. anyway. 

I said it in my notes, but it bears repeating: Stephen and J.T. get up there for OTP. Stephen was a good player for the most part. He flipped a lot which made a lot of the people on the jury not trust/like him. Despite the jury not caring for him much, he was still charming enough to root for him even after all the betrayal. AND he did the math-puzzle thing. Absolutely incredible play.
PicturE



Finally we can get to J.T.. Of course he won. Are you kidding me? He should have been voted off long ago but everyone liked him. There were multiple people who straight up said they would be okay losing to him. People forgot how to play the game around him. They just couldn’t bear to get rid of him though. The little country boy who could. 

Despite this season having some unlikable players, it had a lot of good things too. Some of my favorite moments from all the seasons are when I find stuff that we have watched on youtube. It’s like a little treasure hunt when going through the seasons. I get to be like ‘hey I know this!” and try to remember what exactly happens. This season had a couple of those, so it got a lot of points from me. 

In conclusion:
There were a lot of possibilities here.
There were many conclusions that could have been drawn from this season.

This man has a saying for every occasion.
And at every occasion he says something.
PicturE



Also
Taj is very wholesome
“See you back at camp!”
PicturE




Ep. 1
What did they tell the contestants to do while Jeff gave his spiel on the truck?

Random wildfires!?

These initial confessionals are pretty great 

Girl are you hiding tonsillitis?

Those are some pretty neat mountains. Just a slope up to a plateau 

The way you pronounce the name of this place makes no sense to me

Oo. It’s like raiding the boats but it’s on a truck
Somehow this seems more chaotic. I guess it’s a smaller space

Wow the red tribe seemed like they got a lot of stuff, but it seems like the black team got the good stuff

Four hour trek in 110 degree weather with no water?

A vote? What is going on?
Yeah. Of course you aren’t being voted off right now. I mean, what do I know? But that would seem crazy

Good for the girl with the fever to get the helicopter ride

I feel bad for the camera crews who have to walk with the tribes

Ooo, 19 year old. Spencer

JT is just Spencer from Leverage with short hair
PicturE

PicturE



Oh that was a cool shot. Flew the camera over to the other tribe 

Jerry knows not to take charge even though he has experience with it, lol

Coach, what are you going on about? He’s looking to go to the end with a worthy competitor. We know how that ends already [they don’t know it though because that happens in the future]

Sandy taking that first vote hard.

Oh hey, we’re back down to a normal length premier 

Does Sandy get an advantage of some sort?
Hidden immunity idol already 
“Jalapeno … I don’t know how to say that.” -Sandy
Fair. I also don’t know how you would say that tribe name

What is Sierra going to do?

Oh, is it only a first time idol?

Sierra working really hard, especially for having a fever

What do you expect Sandy to do on her own? You voted for her because you thought she was weak and you expect her to build the camp on her own?

Did the other tribe get lost? They haven’t showed up yet. Aaay, there we go. 

Coach, you’re pushing for the strong to survive and you think Sierra has to go? She just solo built a shelter with a 100 degree fever!

Looking for the idol seems really difficult this time. Not a lot of clues
Does Sandy have it here? Nice job, Sandy!
Oh, just a clue. Sandy trying to ask the camera crew questions

Ope, Tyson’s already naked
“A tiara. A man tiara” -Tyson
Lol

I like the word “Puzzle Plank”
Fire and immunity 
There sure are a lot of people who at least look white in this season
There are a lot of people slacking behind here
Don’t stop moving! What are you doing?
120 degrees. Okay that’s fair
Red (Jalapao) is way ahead
Black (Timbira) going to get this back?
Good for them

Jalapao already arguing

“I just wish we didn’t lose so you didn’t have to go home” -Carolina talking to Sandy
You just being straight up about that, huh?

Oh hey, they have a couple of people with glasses. They could start fire easily 

“Sandy, you a little crazy?” -Jeff
Jeff. What? Lol.  I feel like that may have been in her tape she sent in or something

Ooo, maybe Carolina?
Looks like maybe
Good on Sandy! She worked hard and won her spot.

Poor Carolina didn’t see it coming at all though

They do get fire, so they won’t need the glasses for it 
Dang, was it unanimous?
Ep. 2
Already onto termites 
Ooo, they found the queen!
Uuuuhg. No good!

Timbira can’t seem to get fire going 

Sierra and her new friend not being very subtle about the idol search. 
Nice idea about the fire pit Sierra 

Coach looking to make friends here? Making people angry for the sake of it

Coach being gross. 
My actual face when he tried to lick that woman’s face
PicturE



Stephen, my man. No idea who that woman’s [Taj] football husband is either.

Exile Island, eh? Wait. The only water is a river. What does that island look like?

This HD looks better than last season’s HD

Water basketball
Sandy seems like she’d be good at this. She seems fierce 
J.T and Tyson and just wrestling now
Sandy just hanging on to the other girls top, lol
Just all 6 women in a pile 
Are they drowning Sierra?
Taj cannot aim

First time I’ve heard Jeff’s voice crack. Too much yelling 
2v2! Match point!
I’m not sure which tribe I want to root for yet. No one is standing out to me yet

Is it safe for them to be in the river with all that lighting?

“A very wet but still effective note” -Jeff
The exile island surprise note

Bringing someone with them again. I think I like the double Exile more

Sierra might be out here; which might be best for her health, really

Stephen ‘smitten’ with J.T., lol

Ooo. They’re giving them rice on Exile

Hey, they have to make a choice. This is familiar
One of them got an idol clue it looks like

A personal tribe switch!? Weird

Taj working this Exile Island guy

“Tribal Homelands” has to be their camp
Duh

Taj has the same drive as baseball guy. ‘I want the million dollars because I want it.’

I hope they don’t get Candice out. I assume they will though. She seems like much more of an interesting player, or at least not a creep. And coach doesn’t seem to know what’s going on

There are disagreements at tribal, but it is relatively civil still. I guess it’s early. 

Yup, Candice gone. Figured 

This torch snuffer seems much better

Ep. 3
Erinn trying to save face or being sincere?

Jerry getting ill?

Is that fishing net one that you are just supposed to go set out and come back to check it?
Now they’re getting it! Proper fish

Interesting challenge. Bringing back water and then corn
Blindfolded maze (then blindfolded maize) 

That’s like a patio set they’re playing for

Those two just headbut each other 

Jerry and Brendan(?) not doing great. Finally got their bucket
That is so much corn
Wow Jalapao wrecked that challenge. They got it, not even close

“Your map. Not that you’ll need it” -Jeff
He said this last season, but I think this is the first time I’ve noticed it actually get a response out of who he was handing it to. Brendan cracked a smile at least

Oh wow. They have to carry all the outdoor goods

“He thinks he knows the most” seems to be a very accurate way of describing Coach

Taj and Brendan working together. This is a much more interesting Exile Island. There is strategy of who to bring and whether or not to share the clue. You also get a lot of time with a person from the other tribe to bond with

Taj got a bit of an evil laugh

Jalapao’s shelter is pretty great

“I know I’m a sex kitten this morning. There’s no doubt in my mind.” -Sandy
I don’t even know what that is supposed to mean

Oh wow. Crate stacking puzzle/staircase
That sounds super difficult to actually do. Those crates are fairly large, even if they aren’t super heavy I bet they’re difficult to maneuver 

Let’s see if Sierra has the strength. It looks like her and Tyson were able to get it easily at least
I feel like I might be rooting for Jalapao overall just because it doesn’t have Coach
Jerry seems to be in a real bad way for someone who just got back from Afghanistan 
I guess he is still sick at this point (or hasn’t eaten much)
Yeah this looks really difficult
Timbira self destructing a bit
Yeah that last crate seems very difficult 

Looks like Jerry may be quitting
Dang. They’re doing a confessional with him laying in the shelter
Ope, he’s not going out on his own. Wants to stick in until they vote him off

Sierra seems safe at least

‘Erinn’s just here to lie and deceive’ 
That’s the game. I guess that makes sense for getting her out. She isn’t a strong competitor for challenges and you don’t want to bring someone who has a gameplan to the end

The idol was up the things skirt? Okay, lol

“I think Erinn wants to be here so so bad that her getting blindsided would look really cool. I love seeing people cry when you crush their dreams.” 
Okay, Tyson. Calm down there, bud

Brendan the leader? Coach wants to lead? Give it to him. He’ll get out in a heartbeat with how fast he will rub people the wrong way. 

Everyone laughing at Coach’s coaching metaphors 

Erinn just sat down in the middle of the pack as the last one to vote. Not the last one on the line

Aww, Jerry. I wanted him to stay.  Probably best for him to go though. Get some medical attention and something to eat that wasn’t beans.

“This was the toughest thing I have endured in my life” -Jerry
He was in Afghanistan and this was rougher. Yeesh

Ep. 4
Timbira coming down with a lot of illness

“I wasn’t paying attention. I don’t really care” -Tyson
He’s talking about something that happened during tribal council. Who is this man? What is he doing here?

Taj is a former pop star? I missed that until now

Stephen looking so happy about Taj and Brendan’s plan
Like a kid in a candy store

Oooh, a weight holding challenge. This one seems like it’d be murder on your neck
Oh, a supply steal!

I would think Sandy would be a good choice to hold the bar just because I would think she would refuse to give up, lol
Taj seems like a good choice too though
Oh my god that’s so many sandbags
180 pounds!?
Interesting. Rupert holds the record at 220 pounds and that was a season all about stealing things from the other tribe (which is happening in this challenge too)
I wonder if they keep some challenges + prizes linked
J.T. matched Rupert’s record at least
Oh wow! The women are left! 
Taj can get this! 
Evenly matched in weight too
Woof. Taj visibly sweating. She got it!

I think Taj and Stephen are who I’m rooting for right now

Okay. Sierra picked for Exile and she picked Taj. Taj gets a chance to explain the plan now.

“They’re going to clear out our food supply and then we’re going to go down hill.” -Coach
Buddy, you’re already ‘down hill’

They chose a silent shot of Coach where they had to blur his mouth. They didn’t even beep it, but they wanted you to see that he cursed, lol

“Just remember you may end up over here sometimes”
Smart call

There’s a person in this game named Sydney?
And now she’s in Sandy’s crosshairs?

“You better be pulling some panties off or something” -Sandy
Sandy is a firecracker 

Does Taj think that Brendan is backing out? Okay good. She’s doing the work
Alright! Sierra’s in!

Tyson made a loincloth!

Is this another puzzle challenge? Feels like there have been quite a few puzzles so far. At least a high fraction. There are usually a lot of puzzles, but this stood out to me for some reason
This is a neat field they’ve built 

Any time J.T. is running he looks more like Leverage Spencer (as opposed to 19 year old Spencer). His action face
Is Sierra going to be able to carry this thing? Okay, they’re big but not too heavy it seems
I’m surprised no one has been beamed by one of the puzzle pieces in crossing
This seems like a difficult puzzle. Right spot and right side
Timbira finally pulled it out! Finally got one

They have been really even in tribe numbers this season.
I don’t think I’ve really considered that before because it has been so lopsided a lot of the time in tribe numbers; but they have to come up with a lot of different challenges I imagine. If one tribe gets really low in number, I would imagine some challenges wouldn’t work. Same with if they stay even. A lot of the challenges have one tribe sit people out; but if you’re even that changes things too

Sandy has to go today, right?
Sydney would also make sense. I hadn’t heard about her before today
Sydney says she wants to be ‘sneaky.’ Not a great way to endear yourself before tribal council

“Nobody asked you to defend” -Jeff smiling at Sydney’s unprompted defense of wearing J.T.’s boxers

Someone voted Joe? Also, that guy’s name is Joe?

Oh well Sandy. You had a good run. 

Why did Taj vote Joe?

Who are all these people? I feel like there are a significant amount of names I just don’t know 
No wonder I’m rooting for Stephen and Taj. They’re the only ones who are getting air time 
Ep. 5
Stephen scratching Taj’s back: “I have never brought such pleasure to a woman before” -Stephen
Lol

Oh they are running to tree mail to get that idol
They got it!

Ooo Stephen being sneaky. “As long as it’s in my possession I’m going to try and keep it in my possession.”

Spinning directly to a balance beam!?
Oh, another toilet paper drink reward (Charmin Cafe) 
Taj was so close!
Coach will enjoy making Erinn miserable here
Spencer has this - nevermind! Oh they both fell
He got there!
Oh Sierra looks real bad after that spin
J.T. took one step and fell off, lol
Stephen really keeping up with Coach in running. Didn’t expect that

Are they catching on to Brendan’s play here? Tyson is suspicious 

Letters from home? This early?
Wow. This seems early for letters from home! Not even halfway through the season

I assume that everyone gets letters written for them. Do the people who didn’t win the reward ever get those?

“My mom has only told me she loves me like three times in my life” -J.T.
That’s sweet that she told you here, but there seems like there’s a bigger problem there, bud

Oh they are on to Brendan and Sierra!

“I think it’s going to go just past us” -Coach talking about the rain
Immediate cut to it downpouring, lol

At this point Stephen seems like he might self destruct this secret alliance

Sydney and Spencer having a heart to heart? Ope, nevermind he’s gay, lol. I specifically thought ‘she only asked about girls. Didn’t even think about asking about guys’ before he said that
Poor Spencer doesn’t feel like he can talk about it
This is so much different than the modern season we’re watching in that way. “I’m afraid to tell people I’m gay” on day 15ish vs. “Hey everyone I’m trans” unprompted on day one.

Oh okay, it is slingshot lacrosse again. They did this recently, didn’t they? All the seasons blend together
J.T. dominating
Nice Brendan! You gotta win this so they can’t vote you out and ruin your plans
Did he just chip a tooth!? 
“Here I’ll hold it” -Jeff talking about J.T.’s tooth
J.T. doesn’t want it back..
He just keeps going too! Tooth or no tooth he’s still scoring points
Tyson ties it up! He wins it for them! Tyson keeps Brendan from being voted out
J.T. chipped his tooth for nothing!

“The only thing I have for you is your tooth” -Jeff
What a reward

Taj, why are you getting angry in front of everyone? You are making people angry at you
What are you doing?

Stephen has the idol and Taj can say truthfully she doesn’t have it because of that, lol

I hope Taj doesn’t go home. Her alliance is the most interesting thing going on right now. 

Just one more vote for Spencer and he’s gone. Okay, whew. I would have liked to have had Spencer stay in too, but I am glad Taj gets to stick around.

They sure are talking a lot about momentum this season. 
Wow, unanimous for Spence

Ep. 6
Is this already a clip show? Yes it is

Ep. 7
They’re still gunning for Taj
Joe just keeping Sydney around because he thinks she’s pretty. Like not even speculation, he just said it

I continue to not like Coach
The tribe continues to not like Coach

Ooo, another barricade challenge
Interesting. Ceramic pig challenge, lol
How many pigs did they buy for this?

Man, another reward that someone from the winning tribe has to miss

I think these tribes have the right idea. There is a lot of room (3D) to build, but all you have to do is make a good wall
Timbira doing great at this
Everyone’s got a good rhythm now
If they tie will they just go to to first to get one through?
Whew. Last second Timbira win

Joe and Erinn to exile. Joe explicitly choosing another woman because she’s attractive 

Lol, they got pool floaties 

Oh hey. They did the Amanda blur on Erinn and then in the next shot she had on pants. And then in the next shot she didn’t have pants!

Oof, they found the clue that told them exactly where the idol was. 

Stephen and Taj looking to make a fake idol too! I knew I liked them 

Hello, little gentleman
PicturE



J.T. found the idol!?

What is your play, Stephen?
He is playing all sorts of games here

Hopefully J.T.’s southern boy word will keep

Interesting challenge. Sand pours out, tile revealed, get puzzle pieces

J.T. and Tyson neck and neck here on the tiles
Tyson pulling ahead! Tyson sassing J.T., lol
J.T. finally made it. 
For the alliance to keep in this, they need Timbira to win
Jalapao has the numbers to sway the vote in their favor I think.

Joe’s leg does not look good. There is puss coming out of it an a bug crawling on it

Joe found the fake! He believes it!

Aww, don’t turn on Taj. Just get rid of Sydney or Joe! You have such a better chance at the final 4/5 if you keep her in

2v2! Who’s it going to be? Syd, right?

Yes! Whew!

“If you do merge…” - Jeff you sly fella, you know exactly what you’re doing

“I don’t see anyone from Timbira switching over” -Sydney in her exit interview
Well…
Ep. 8
“We’re just Jala. We lost Pao.” -Taj
lol

I’m sorry. What is going on here?
PicturE


What’s with the opera music over Coach posing?

“This is about me now.” -Coach
Boy, you still have to not get voted off. You aren’t going to win every individual immunity

Joe that leg is not good
Why haven’t they had medical look at that thing yet?

J.T. doesn’t know about the secret alliance even though he knows about the idol. 

“I get excited when I hear anything that starts with an ‘F’” -Taj followed by maniacal laughing 

Oh hey! That’s just a feast. Merge!

Secret alliance has concluded part one. They made it to the merge!

They didn’t have to deal with Spencer being underaged with the wine

“... all the Alpha Males together’ -Coach
Hrmmm

Oof, Joe’s leg just bleeding 

J.T. not betraying his trust with Taj, good good

“I’m just here to make sure everybody hates each other” -J.T.
Lol

Brendan looks like he’s in trouble

Stephen is being courted by the other tribe. It feels like he’s got a better chance with Taj and them though. The other alliance is a bunch of strong competitors 

Joe left his idol at camp!? At least it’s a fake, lol. Not that he knows it

That is a nice immunity necklace

Oh! Is this the hang on to the pole and you gradually slide down challenge?
We’ve seen this before. Was it on Yul’s season? I think he mentioned something about surface area when they did it 
Stephen did not last long 
Joe’s leg not doing him any favors

Jeff just realizing Joe’s leg is messed up?

It feels like the women usually have an advantage on this one. Still got three men in at this point though. Coach and Tyson still up top

Ooh come on Sierra, stick in this!
Oof, she is - nevermind she’s gone. That looked rough
I feel like I haven’t seen anything about Debbie in this game. 
Good on Tyson.

Joe’s leg finally getting looked at 
Do they usually give the doctor’s name?
The infection could enter the bone? Hrmmmmmm

Something of Tyson’s personality reminds me of Ryan Webster, lol

“Lying to everyone brings me pleasure” -Tyson
And some things don’t remind me of Ryan

Did Stephen just out the other alliance to J.T.?

Taj is turning on Brendan!?
Brendan not playing a great game by losing her trust

What happens if all the votes are nullified by hidden idols?

Looks like Brendan played himself out of the final 4

Coach you did not make this plan! What? 

Oh no. Here comes Probst into camp. That can never be good
Joe’s out of the game!

No tribal in this episode? 
Helicopter evac. Woof. 

No tribal council at all!?
They’re just skipping it!?

Wow. That is something else. Tyson’s win was for nothing. Has this happened before?

I guess their episode plan only works with the amount of contestants they have?

Ep. 9
Now Joe’s idol is just gone!
“There are three people who know this story” -Coach
Time to tell it on national television

This was not a motivational story

“Because I pulled some strings” - Coach talking about getting dropped in
Oh. So this story is fake
I was 90% sure but that sent it over

I was eating pizza and I had to smash pause and then run to the bathroom to wash my hands because I needed to comment on this
“You won’t find it with a google search. It’s passed down verbally” -Coach talking about the poses he’s doing in the river
My dude. What? What are you hoping to accomplish here?     

Ooo. Exile Island still in play?
Interesting challenge. Breaking the tiles with metal balls

“We’re throwing underhanded at tiles. None of us have ever done this in our lives!” -Brendan arguing against the black team is stacked
“I have” -Coach
My dude! This made me literally throw my hands up
PicturE



I like when they play with the music. They have certain stings that I can recognize by this point that they’ll play when the challenge is nearly done. Then they can use those to fake that someone is about to win/lose

Two partially broken tiles to go! Very close

Brendan finally brings it home for black team!

“Be the wizard, Stephen.” -Coach
What?

I am glad Coach didn’t get the reward

Stephen hasn’t made fire yet!?

“I would make fire. I would make food. Or I would die.” -Stephen
He did it! Fire that is, not die

Who makes the food they get at challenges?

Brendan is okay with J.T. winning if he brings him along. What is with this group? They want to bring good people with them - people who will beat them. 
From a certain perspective that’s nice. From another perspective, that’s really dumb

Okay, Brendan trying to save face with Taj finally. 

Everyone loves J.T., lol
He’s going to win this just because no one wants to get rid of him

“It’s too gaudy for me anyways” -Tyson talking about the immunity necklace

Gotta have a rope challenge
Oh my god. That’s a big rope challenge. I feel like someone is going to fall off that 
Go Sierra go!
Tyson and J.T. are blowing through this
I hope J.T. gets this just because he doesn’t need it 
Okay, really I hope Sierra gets it
Brendan is okay too I guess. Now can he win the 2nd part? (the answer is no)
Man. Tyson is going to win this one and I don’t want him to.
Does Brendan have this? Nah, Tyson’s got this

I think getting rid of Coach would be a big morale boost at camp

Tyson, you suck. You surprise suck

Getting rid of Brendan and Sierra is Tyson’s plan and Coach is taking credit for it

Hah, he turned the necklace into a headdress 

When do they light their torches to bring to council? 

Jeff’s face about his Amazon story
Jeff not buying it either!
This guy is such a pathological liar and he is just doubling, tripling down

Brendan just raising his hand and saying he has the idol!? What? What is that play? Trying to divert votes I guess? 

I’m pretty sure Coach thinks he is the main character. Not of this show, not of his life, but of life in general 

Oh Coach is so sure of himself. Please let him get voted out.
2 for Coach
3v3v2 
Oh no!
They stuck with the Coach plan!?
Woof
Voted out with the idol too. 

Sierra is alone now 

Ep. 10

Erinn looking very sad into the camera after Sierra just kind of gave up once they got back to camp
PicturE



“In war- in love and war - it’s kill or be killed” -Coach
What? Even Sierra was like ‘what?’
This man is insane

How far away from camp do they take them to do the confessionals? 

Sierra is trying to save face and she is not doing a great job

Neat challenge. Line up the panels with holes to see the letters to solve the word puzzle

Oh wow those panels are far away
J.T. just solo carrying that board 
Taj living dangerously carrying that board on her neck and Jeff calling her out on it
If I were in Sierra’s position I’m not sure I’d be working so hard to help them all out. 
Red was way ahead on that one

Smart move J.T.. Send Stephen to Exile to see if the idol is back in play

Do these people speak English? They’re talking to them like they speak English
Okay. The person they were speaking to spoke back

Ope. They got someone throwing up at a challenge. As is tradition

There’s an urn there at least at Exile. 

Sierra really breaking down. Trying every angle
She just won’t stop talking either

At least she hasn’t given up on winning immunity 

Wow that is a lot of rain.
Jeff is drenched
Taj looks absolutely miserable. She is absolutely shaking 
Shuffleboard, eh?
Pizza for those who don’t participate 
Coach eating. I expected him to participate
Stephen makes sense, he’s been on Exile
Is the rain helping or hurting? 
As the rain is collecting on the board it is definitely hurting
Sierra puts Tyson in the lead! Oof!
Everyone looks so miserable in the rain
Sierra in the lead!? Come on girl! All they have to do is knock her out 
Yeah. It wasn’t hard to get her out of there
Poor Sierra. Almost made it

“I’m hoping that Sierra will cry a lot” -Tyson
You suck, dude. Like 100%

They going for Tyson? Please get rid of Tyson

J.T. gave Coach his word and shook his hand

Jeff confused by what Sierra was trying to explain

“I want to walk the path of the noble warrior” -Coach
“And then you voted off Brendan” -Jeff
“I’ll explain this to you” -C
“I’m sure you will.” -Jeff
Amazing

Coach talking about bringing the strong with him to the end and then trying to justify himself in voting out Brendan. If this guy wins this game I quit. He’s just so full of himself 

Heck, even if J.T. doesn’t go back on his word to Coach, Sierra just voted for Tyson and replaced what would be his vote. 
I am doubtful they’ll actually go through with it though, unfortunately 

Please please please Tyson
Sierra like “what is going on? Tyson?”
Amazing
Please. One more vote!
YES! YES YES YES!

J.T. went back on his word to Coach
Ep. 11
We haven’t seen much from Taj in a while
I wonder if that’s because she hasn’t been in the mix as much with planning or if she just got her screen time in the narrative 
She seemed to be just going with the flow from what we’ve seen
She needs to get herself in the game with planning or else she has no chance at the jury

Now they need Sierra, lol
Fantastic

Sierra might not deserve to win this game, but she deserves something for putting up with Tyson

Ooo. Hidden name game
They don’t need this right now. They already hate each other
Ooo. Hammer to destroy the idols this time
I do like the hidden name game 
Are they not doing a loved ones challenge this season? I don’t think they do it every time
Coach needs Sierra for an alliance and he goes for her rope?
Lol, Taj whacked Stephen on the head with her names as he won

Gotta be Taj to go with him. 

Coach realizing now that he’s really on the outs with the old Jalapao tribe

Woof. Taj left a 3yo at home. That’s rough for her

Debbie is losing it 

Woooah! Coach straight up lying about Sierra! To Sierra and to J.T.!

Take! Out! Coach!

“Debbie with her first bag!” - Debbie, lol

Erinn back talking Jeff, love to see it

Oh come on. You can’t let Coach win this!
J.T. and Coach on to round two. Who’s going to be 3rd? Debbie again. Sleeper threat

I feel like I had a version of the ball-hole maze as a kid 
Oh come on. Don’t let Coach get this!
Uhg. He finally got immunity 
That changes things for sure

Maybe Sierra can pull this around to Debbie

Debbie! You are a liar! 

I think they believe Sierra. Please at least get Debbie out.
“A beautiful eye roll, went all the way around.” -Jeff to Sierra

J.T. laughing at Coach’s story (read: lie)

Who voted Stephen? 

Aaaagh! Sierra no!

Erinn voted for Stephen? Was this for sending her to Exile?

Ep. 12
Coach you are full of it
I am done with Coach

Debbie. Turn on him. He has done enough 

Debbie is definitely a sleeper player

We got an auction? We auction now? Yeeeee!

“40” -Taj for the fries
“50” - Debbie
“20 dollar increments” -Jeff
“70” -Deb

I think we may have watched this one. This seems familiar

Wait a minute. Does Taj almost get the letter from home here and then she gets it anyway?

Fat dip of that guac for J.T.

Chicken hearts on a skewer at least. That seems pretty good

Tiny little fake smart phone for loved one message

Everyone’s money to Taj

Whew. Rough. Lots of emotion
That I remember! “See you back at camp!” A picture of Taj freaking out may very well be the in conclusion
That’s what it was! Everyone gets their loved ones and Taj gets her husband at Exile

My eyes have been watering since she got the option to give everyone their loved ones and now they’re back at camp

Who did Coach get? 
Debbie’s husband with a bowling shirt, lol

“Guess what they call me in this camp. Dragonslayer. I’m running things out here.” -Coach
NO ONE CALLS YOU THAT! Only you call you that! 
It’s his assistant coach!? For real?
I feel like I might remember you telling me that
Erinn’s dad, lol. He’s got such culture shock

Taj’s husband with the fire! Nice job!

Woof. Everyone crying. Except Coach

Not a loved ones challenge this season, just loved ones.
Taj better get a free pass at the next tribal no matter what

They should have really voted out Debbie. She’s playing the game and Sierra was just lasting. Debbie has a much better chance at winning the jury

Debbie. Did you just offer them the immunity necklace in final three? You can’t be serious, right? This is just a play?

Wait. Are they going to get rid of Deb over Coach? I guess it makes sense because her game plan is better. I just want to see Coach gone.

The math symbols! I think we may have seen this one!
Does Stephen memorize the symbols by assigning numbers to them?

Wow that balance beam was nothing for J.T.
Oh wow you have to do the whole course to get those symbols back
Wow Stephen cannot do the balance beam
Do they have to do order and pemdas here or what?
I think Stephen did it! I think he’s the one! He’s the one!
Wow. What a plan to think of after so many days out there. 

They’re turning on Deb. They can stomach Coach a little longer 

What are the jury members carrying? Hoodies?

“Let me guess some chief in a small village-” -Jeff
Oh my god! Drag him Probst
Got me rolling 

There must be a huge pressure on Jeff to keep his appearance the same after so long. Same face, similar hair, similar weight

Debbie voted for Coach!? I guess she thinks they’re voting for him. I shouldn’t be so surprised

Everything is finally coming together

Coach knows already they aren’t voting Taj

He’s gonna be upseeeeet. He’s got a big smile on his face for now at least
Ep. 13
It shocks me that Erinn is still in this

Oh Coach. They did not do this to save you.

He seems to understand that he isn’t in this anymore though at least

Coach seems to be playing to the camera men at confessionals too. He’s just deluding himself at that point
They are finally just done with him.

I appreciate this very much. More than I probably should, lol
PicturE



Feet shackled for the challenge, huh?
Overnight reward! Governor’s retreat?

Man, I really hope Coach doesn’t win this and they get to send him to Exile
Their little hops, lol
Coach is just going to follow J.T. 

They started doing some camera/screen edits this season

Man, I really want J.T. to dominate this over Coach.
Wow, the others are two letters behind them

I feel like I haven’t seen as many ‘build a pole’ challenges recently 
Wow J.T.! Very good pole building and very good aim!
Got it!

J.T. and Stephen don’t quite reach OTP over Yau and Earl, but they’re good

Come on J.T., send Coach! Yes! YES!
He’s going to take the ‘monastic approach’ and not eat or build fire. That is because he can’t and now he just has a reason.

MAN! Coach has so much to say! 

Coach, my god. You are a piece of work. And you’ve started referring to yourself in the 3rd person

J.T. very excited to be at the retreat and to fly in the plane, lol

Their reaction to their faces in the mirror, lol

They are really feasting 

They’re really taking Coach? 
Take Erinn! No one likes her! She won’t get any jury votes

Hey! They did this challenge with Yul too I’m pretty sure! Was it with Yul or in China?
Hold yourself up with only your elbows I think? Okay, your arms

The video quality really seems a lot better this season than last

“Where mental toughness is going to win out” eh? Coach should have this in the bag by his own word then

Taj crossing her eyes at Coach’s nonsense, gotta love it

Wow that foothold is tiny
Erinn’s out. The only hope was to have her get immunity so Coach had to be voted out. 
J.T. and Coach left. Please J.T.
Coach not showing any wear though
50 minutes up there. Coach not letting out 
But he may be going insane 
This music. So dramatic, lol
Whew. J.T. got it 
Coach crying

Getting medical in here to check him out? Nope. 

“J.T. congratulations.” -Jeff
That was the least enthusiasm I have ever heard Jeff give when awarding a prize/immunity

First time I’ve heard anyone refer to Coach as the Dragonslayer that isn’t Coach

Is Stephen going to betray Coach and not tell J.T.?
PicturE



Coach has a saying for every occasion. And he says something at every occasion 

Oh! Coach stopped Jeff as he was trying to get to the voting! Second time I’ve seen that
He stopped him for a poem!?
The jury! Lol. They are so absolutely done with this guy

I feel like it would actually be a really bad move to put Coach on the Jury at this point. Either J.T. or Stephen would have to go back on their word and that would destroy the chance at a jury vote

2v2 Coach Erinn. What we going to do, Stephen?
YES
MY BOY
He’s finally gone!
Full on fist pump in the air 
We are done with his nonsense until he gets his chance to talk on the jury

Ep. 14
Stephen finally thinking of turning on J.T.

Whoever wins should pay for J.T.’s tooth if Survivor doesn’t

Making your course a giant spider is 
1. A neat design
2. A bold move for national TV which has to apply to a broad audience which will almost certainly have a large number of arachnophobic viewers

What is actually happening in this challenge? Oh, puzzle pieces on each leg

“That rope will tear you up. Gonna lose some skin in this challenge” -Jeff
Then why did you make it that way, Jeff?

Erinn better hurry. She and J.T. are the ones at risk here (but mostly her)
I like when people backtalk Jeff, but it is also good when people just full on ignore him when he is talking right behind them because they are so focused 

Wow that was close! Erinn almost pulled it out!
Good going J.T.!

Well, J.T. just won one million dollars (if this is a final 3)

Finally turning on Taj? 

Does Coach still have his stick? He does

Even Erinn is shocked she’s still here

Wow the thunder and lightning are very thematic at the final 4 tribal council


I haven’t noticed Jeff’s loop shirt this season. Did it die with SD video? I don’t think it was in the last season either

Aww, Taj. Erinn going to the end it seems. 

Okay. It is a final two. They better hope to dead-god that Erinn doesn’t win this

I think Erinn going to the end with the jury being filled with her old tribemates seems sketchy

Remembrance time
Just taking the little idols off the torches this time. Last time it was just masks. No more carrying the entire torch

“Just because you’ve been successful in business doesn’t mean you’ll be successful in Survivor” -Brendan
What would make you think it would be?

What will Coach have to say in his remembrance confessional?
Without ever telling a lie!? No.

What is this challenge? A marble maze?
Ooo. Interesting. Gotta juggle the balls
One ball gets you out!?
One handed!?

This challenge gives me so much anxiety 
Ooooh, Erinn is out. That was my main concern. She may still go to the end, but it isn’t guaranteed. I think I just want J.T. to stick in it 

Well. J.T. just won one million dollars.

“And you know I gotta admit, when you weigh a million dollars with a breakfast with your 39 day friend- you’re right. That’s a tough one” -Jeff
That one actually made me cackle 

“Stephen making a better case for you than you are” -Jeff
Talking about how Erinn is better off staying quiet and having Stephen dig his own grave

J.T. guarantees Coach’s vote if he brings Stephen.

My face when that vote was for Erinn
PicturE



*audible gasp*

“Don’t go off first impressions” -J.T.
They have to have prompted that question given that this season started off explicitly with first impressions

Stephen, I’m not sure you’re doing well selling yourself at the FTC. You have been so good at the social end up until this point. 

I think I’m fine with either of these people winning. That hasn’t often been the case 

Oh wow. Erinn out last, but 2nd to ask questions

Stephen is freaking out. I think he might be having an anxiety attack, lol

Sierra going off on J.T. a bit

The last jury question has them going for the throat! I guess it’s their last time to air out any grievances. I feel like Stephen is just panicking so much that he is going to cost himself every vote he might have won during the FTC

It’s got me wanting to fast forward just to see what it’s going to be

Is this going to be a sweep? 

NYC for the votes? Is it always NYC or has it been LA before?

Standing ovation from the audience for Jeff walking in with the votes

J.T. has too many layers on. He’s wearing an undershirt with his polo

J.T. wins, surprising no one, lol

Oh man his family is weeping

Aay, another unanimous vote. Unsurprising
Reunion:
“Hate Coach. Love J.T.” -Jeff
Lol, people coming up to Jeff telling him that

J.T. played up his reaction to Stephen’s betrayal, lol

Jeff a little hoarder keeping J.T.’s tooth

Those glasses make J.T.’s mom’s eyes look huge

He brought his own lie detector test
I appreciate Coach blindsiding Jeff. I don’t believe him for a second 

Coach’s lady friend got a drum roll! Amazing
“Actually I slay the dragon” -Coach’s ‘lady friend’

That’s two seasons in a row isn’t it!? The 100k prize and the sole survivor

We going back to an island next season?







